
GROWCIRCLE — COMPLETE PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT
VERSION 1.0 | CLASSIFICATION: INTERNAL — CONFIDENTIAL


DOCUMENT SCOPE
This document covers the full product definition for GrowCircle, a social
accountability platform. It is structured for consumption by product managers,
UX designers, software engineers, QA teams, architects, and business
stakeholders. All sections are derived from the raw product brief with no
invented major features. Implied requirements are flagged. Ambiguities are
isolated to their own section.


SECTION 1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


GrowCircle is a mobile-first, cross-platform social accountability platform
designed for small, trusted groups of 2 to 10 people — couples, friends,
study partners, gym partners, family members, and small teams. It replaces
isolated single-user habit trackers and passive social fitness apps with an
integrated system where goals are created, tracked, verified, and enforced
together.

The platform combines five distinct functional layers into one product:
a flexible goal and habit tracking engine, a real-time accountability and
partner monitoring system, a digital wellbeing monitoring and intervention
system, a full-featured in-app communication suite, and a gamification and
challenge engine with optional financial stakes.

Users create a Growth Circle, invite trusted people, set personal goals (using
templates or from scratch), log daily progress with optional proof, monitor
partners' completions in real time, send nudges or temporary app locks when
someone is distracted, and engage in structured challenges with defined stakes.
Multi-dimensional performance scores, streaks, badges, XP, and leaderboards
create a data-driven and socially reinforced growth experience.

Revenue model is freemium with Pro subscription, a 5% transaction fee on
wagers once payment is integrated, premium template packs, and future
enterprise/coaching plans.

MVP will deliver core goal tracking, partner feed, basic gamification, nudges,
chat, and challenge system. Screen time monitoring, app locking, voice/video
calling, and screen sharing are phased post-MVP due to OS-level complexity.


SECTION 2. PRODUCT VISION


GrowCircle becomes the definitive operating system for collaborative personal
growth — the one platform where small, trusted groups do the daily work of
becoming better together. It replaces the fragmented stack of habit trackers,
messaging apps, social feeds, and screen-time dashboards with a single,
purpose-built environment where progress is visible, verifiable, competitive,
and emotionally invested. Discipline is no longer a solitary struggle — it is
a shared contract.

Core philosophical pillars:

Transparency: Every member sees every other member's daily completions,
streaks, tasks coompleted, challenges completed and proof for it via photos if needed, in real time.

Verifiability: Claims can be backed by photo, video, screenshot, or
screen-share proof, removing the honor system as the only mechanism.

Accountability: Partners actively intervene — nudging, locking apps ( locking apps is like for example if my girlfriend is using instagram for 2 hrs then i can see it in the app usage or digital wellbeing thing like that and from there i can send a shutdown or force stop signal to the app in her or his device and even lock that app for some time),
challenging — rather than passively observing.

Consent: All sensitive interventions require explicit, revocable permission.
The system is not a surveillance tool; it is a consensual discipline contract.

Measurability: Multiple scoring dimensions (Daily Performance, Consistency,
Growth, Discipline, Accountability) give users a rich, nuanced view of
progress beyond binary streaks.

Gamification with Stakes: XP, badges, leaderboards, and challenges with real
or symbolic consequences make discipline engaging rather than punitive.


SECTION 3. PROBLEM STATEMENT


3.1 Primary Problems

Isolation in self-improvement: Most people attempt personal development alone.
Without external visibility, motivation fades within weeks. Existing apps
(Habitica, Streaks, Notion habit trackers) are inherently single-user.

Passive social tools: Apps like Strava or Bereal create public feeds but offer
no accountability mechanism, no intervention capability, and no goal structure.
They are broadcasting platforms, not accountability platforms.

Fragmented toolstack: A person trying to hold a partner accountable today must
use a habit tracker for goal logging, WhatsApp for communication, iOS Screen
Time (limited to family) for digital wellbeing, a notes app for challenges, and
no unified verification mechanism.

No consensual partner intervention: There is no platform that allows one adult
to temporarily restrict another adult's app usage as a mutually agreed
discipline mechanism. iOS Screen Time is parent-to-child only. Android Device
Policy is for enterprise. There is a gap in the trusted-peer accountability
space.

Lack of structured proof: Partners claiming completion without evidence create
trust degradation over time. No mainstream habit tracker requires or supports
proof upload and partner verification natively.

and mainly interactivity and feeling the compidition for daily task and challenges which we can give to our friend / partner / the group so that growing up, grinding and following our goals would actually feel interesting and not boaring 

3.2 Secondary Problems

No structured challenge system for peers: Most peer fitness apps lack legal-
weight challenges with clear conditions, deadlines, and tracked outcomes.

No digital wellbeing tool for adults / partners / friends so that we can track app usage in trusted pairs: All parental control
tools are asymmetric (parent controls child). GrowCircle introduces symmetric,
mutual, consent-based digital wellbeing.

Motivation decay: Gamification in existing apps (Duolingo, Habitica) is
single-player. Competing against a specific trusted person creates stronger
motivation than competing against anonymous strangers.


SECTION 4. TARGET USERS AND PERSONAS


PRIMARY USERS

Persona 1 — The Growth Partner Couple
Profile: Two people in a romantic relationship, age 22-35, both working
professionals or students with shared improvement goals, challenges and daily tasks (fitness, finance,
learning, monetering about each others diet daily and stuff ( everything would be editable the tasks, challenges and all so that everyone can set up their own goals and send challenges to their friends and partners) ).

Goals: Build consistent habits together, hold each other accountable without
nagging, add structured competition to their relationship so that both grow with each other 

Pain points: One person is more disciplined than the other and there is no
platform tool to formalize expectations without WhatsApp fights.
Usage pattern: Daily check-in in the morning and night, evening recap, weekend challenge
review.
Key features used: Goal feed, proof upload, challenges with forfeits, streaks,
nudges.

Persona 2 — The Study Duo / Academic Partners
Profile: Two students, age 18-28, preparing for competitive exams or pursuing
parallel skill development (coding, design, language learning).
Goals: Maintain consistent study hours, verify actual productive time (not
just app open time), hold each other to defined syllabi.
Pain points: Study sessions go off-track, social media pulls attention,
no way to verify if partner actually studied.
Usage pattern: Morning goal set, Pomodoro-style mid-session logging,
screen-share verification during sessions.
Key features used: Time-based goals, screen time monitoring, focus alerts,
screen sharing, challenges.

Persona 3 — The Gym Partners / Fitness Duo
Profile: Two friends, age 20-32, who work out together or separately but want
shared tracking.
Goals: Hit daily workout targets, prove completion, compete on weekly volume.
Pain points: One person skips gym and the other has no way to call them out
with evidence.
Usage pattern: Post-workout photo proof upload, weekly challenge competition,
leaderboard comparison.
Key features used: Numeric goals, photo proof, challenges, streaks, badges.

Persona 4 — The Accountability Group
Profile: A small group of 3-8 professionals or students with mixed goals
(career, fitness, reading, mindfulness).
Goals: Create a trust-based group operating system for diverse individual goals,
foster friendly competition.
Pain points: Group chats become noise; no structured tracking or accountability
layer exists within messaging apps.
Usage pattern: Daily feed check, weekly leaderboard review, monthly challenges.
Key features used: Circle feed, leaderboard, nudges, XP, badges.

SECONDARY USERS

Persona 5 — The Coach / Mentor
Profile: A fitness trainer, life coach, or academic mentor managing 1-5 clients.
Goals: Monitor client consistency, intervene remotely, add structured
accountability.
Usage pattern: Dashboard review, goal assignment, progress analysis.
Key features used: (Future) Observer role with aggregated analytics.

Persona 6 — The Parent and Teen
Profile: Parent helping a teenager (age 14-17) build better digital and
academic habits.
Goals: Collaborative goal-setting (not just restriction), transparent screen
time review, soft intervention.
Usage pattern: Parent reviews teen's daily completion, sends nudge, sets
timeout for gaming apps in evening.
Key features used: Screen time monitoring, timeout, shared feed.
Note: Must comply with COPPA for users under 13. Platform minimum age: 13
with parental consent. Full features: 18+.


SECTION 5. USER STORIES


GOAL SYSTEM

US-001: As a user, I want to create a custom goal with a name, type, target value, and schedule so that I can track meaningful activities that contribute to my personal growth. I want my goals, progress, streaks, and achievements to be visible to my trusted circle members so that we can hold each other accountable, celebrate successes, provide encouragement during setbacks, and create a shared sense of commitment that makes personal growth more consistent, engaging, and difficult to abandon..

US-002: Also as a user, I want to choose a goal from a pre-built template library based on my gender and realtion and goals etc 
so that I can get started quickly without manually configuring everything.

US-003: As a user, I want to edit, pause, or delete any goal I own so that with the goals or daily task editing section!
my goal list stays relevant to my current priorities.

US-004: As a user, I want to set optional sub-tasks or milestones within a
goal so that complex multi-step goals have structure.

US-005: As a user, I want to mark goals as requiring proof before completion
so that there is a built-in verification layer for goals I care about most.

PROGRESS LOGGING

US-006: As a user, I want to log daily completion of a goal with an actual
value (e.g., 80 out of 100 push-ups) so that partial progress is captured,
not just binary done/not-done.

US-007: As a user, I want to attach a photo, video (max 30 seconds), or
screenshot as proof of completion so that my partners can verify my claims which makes the app interactive and create a pressure or sense of motivation and fomo which would lead us to complete our daily task at any cost .

US-008: As a user, I want to start an in-app timer for time-based goals so
that duration is tracked objectively rather than estimated.

US-009: As a user, I want to log activity while offline and have it sync
automatically when I come back online so that connectivity issues do not
break my streak.

US-010: As a user, I want to edit a log within 24 hours of submission so
that I can correct genuine input errors.

PARTNER MONITORING AND ACCOUNTABILITY

US-011: As a user, I want to see my circle partners' daily goal completions
and proof in a real-time feed so that I am aware of their progress without
asking them.

US-012: As a user, I want to send a nudge to a partner about an incomplete
goal so that I can prompt them without an intrusive message.

US-013: As a user, I want to send messages linked to a specific goal or incomplete task of a circle member so that I can encourage, remind, motivate, or hold them accountable in the context of that goal rather than through generic chat messages..


DIGITAL WELLBEING

US-015: As a user, I want to share my daily screen time and per-app usage
with my circle or with my partner or friend according to my setup linked relation and my gender (after granting consent) so that my partners have visibility
into my digital habits.

US-016: As a user, I want to send a focus alert to a partner who is
overusing an app so that I can intervene without a phone call.

US-017: As a user, I want to initiate a temporary app lock (timeout) on a
partner's device for a specific app and duration if they have granted me
permission so that I can enforce a digital detox when they need it.

US-018: As a user, I want to override a timeout after a 5-minute cooldown
so that I am never locked out of a critical app permanently.

US-019: As a user, I want to hide specific apps (e.g., banking, health)
from my shared screen time report so that sensitive app usage remains
private.

COMMUNICATION

US-020: As a user, I want to send text messages within my circle or in a
one-on-one thread so that growth-related communication stays in context
within one app.
and also tag a task or a goal to send message related to that task or goal to tell them to complete this incomplete task 

US-021: As a user, I want to make a voice or video call to a circle member or a single ( partner or friend )
directly from the app so that I can do live accountability check-ins.

US-022: As a user, I want to request a screen share from a partner so that
I can verify they are actually doing the work (e.g., studying, coding).

US-023: As a user, I want the screen sharing to start when my partner or friend accepts the screen sharing notification which they will get when i send request  

CHALLENGES

US-024: As a user, I want to create a structured challenge for one or more
circle members or my friend or my girlfriend/ boyfriend with a defined condition, and stake so that there
is a high-motivation, competitive element to specific goals.

US-025: As a user, I want the system to automatically declare a winner at the end of the day on the basis of number if daily tasks and extra challenges completed if any..!
and not self-reported.

US-026: As a user, I want to dispute a challenge outcome and have it
reviewed with available evidence so that unfair results can be contested.

GAMIFICATION

US-027: As a user, I want to earn XP for every completed goal and bonus XP
for uploading proof, maintaining streaks, and other positive behaviors so
that effort is quantifiably rewarded.

US-028: As a user, I want to earn badges for specific milestones so that
there is a collection of visible achievements on my profile.

US-029: As a user, I want to view a leaderboard within my circle comparing
members on various metrics so that friendly competition is structured.

US-030: As a user, I want a grace mode that pauses my streak and
expectations for up to 2 days or editable so that I am not penalized for
unavoidable disruptions.

US-031: As a user, I want to receive a streak freeze item from challenges
or rewards so that I can use it as a one-day automatic grace day.

CIRCLES AND ONBOARDING

US-032: As a user, I want to create a Growth Circle, set its name and
privacy, and invite members via a shareable link or code so that setup
is quick and accessible.

US-033: As a user, I want to be in multiple circles simultaneously (e.g.,
one with my partner, one with my study group) with isolated goals and
logs per circle so that contexts do not bleed into each other.

US-034: As a user, I want to select my active circle so that the dashboard
and feed reflect the right context.

US-035: As a circle owner, I want to configure circle-level permissions
(who can send timeouts, visibility scope, allowed challenge stakes) so
that the group experience matches the trust level of the members.
US-036: note that my prigress and its tracking woud be also there while also sharing others..!

SECTION 6. FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS


FR-001 AUTHENTICATION AND PROFILE
The system shall support user registration via email and phone number and save data about friends,clans or groups or friend bonds and tasks and everything in their gmail and send pairing norivication in a request section and a user would be searched via their gmail not any unique ID their gmail address would be their unique ID.

The system shall support profile creation with name, photo, and bio.
The system shall enforce minimum age of 13.

The system shall support multi-device login with session management.
The system shall allow password reset via email or SMS OTP.

FR-002 CIRCLE MANAGEMENT
The system shall allow any authenticated user to create a Growth Circle.
The system shall generate a unique, shareable invite link and code per circle.
The system shall support circles of 2 to 10 members (MVP maximum: configurable).
The system shall isolate goals, logs, and scores per circle context.
The system shall allow a user to belong to multiple circles simultaneously.
The system shall provide a circle switcher interface for multi-circle users.
The system shall allow the circle owner to remove members.
The system shall allow any member to leave a circle voluntarily.
The system shall allow the circle owner to set circle-level permissions:
and also usser in the circle to allow the things like :
1 location allow 
2 every app runtime usage
3 app timeout 
4 etc fetch in the PRD itself

timeout permission (enabled/disabled, mutual or unilateral), leaderboard
visibility, maximum allowed stake type for challenges.

FR-003 GOAL SYSTEM
The system shall allow each user to create unlimited goals within a circle for himself 
(unlimited in Pro, 10 limit in Free — implied from freemium model).
Each goal shall support the following configuration: name, goal type (Binary,
Numeric, Time-based, Custom), target value, schedule (Daily / specific days /
weekly frequency / custom date range), category with emoji, optional sub-tasks
or milestones, optional proof requirement flag, active or archived status.
The system shall generate daily instances (GoalInstances) for each active goal
according to its schedule.
The system shall provide a template library with pre-configured goal packs
browsable during onboarding and at any time post-onboarding.
The system shall warn users of potential duplicate goals when importing a
template that closely matches an existing goal.
The system shall support goal versioning so that changes to a goal's target
mid-streak do not invalidate historical logs.
The system shall allow goals to be cloned from templates or from the user's
existing goals.

FR-004 PROGRESS LOGGING
The system shall generate a daily checklist for each user showing all active
GoalInstances for that day.
The system shall allow completion logging via: binary mark (done), numeric
input (actual value), timer start/stop (for time-based goals).
The system shall support optional proof attachment: photo, video (max 30
seconds, max 50 MB), screenshot, or document (PDF).
The system shall record timestamp, actual value, and completion status per log.
The system shall broadcast a notification to all circle members or my friend / partner whatever according to the setuo when a log is
submitted.
The system shall allow log editing within 24 hours of original submission.
Edits after 24 hours shall be flagged as late-edited in the log record.
The system shall support offline log creation with automatic sync when
connectivity is restored, using a local queue.
The system shall allow partial completion recording (e.g., 70/100 push-ups
= 70% completion ).

FR-005 PARTNER FEED
The system shall display a real-time feed on the home screen showing each
circle member's daily goal status
or only for my partner / friend according to the relation and setup, completion count, proof thumbnails,
and streak.
The system shall allow any member to tap a feed entry to view full proof
media.


The system shall update the feed in real time via WebSocket connections.
The system shall show summary widgets per member (e.g., "Aarav: 4/5
goals, 12-day streak").

FR-006 NUDGES
The system shall allow any circle member to send a nudge to another member
about a specific incomplete goal.
The system shall limit nudges to a configurable maximum per sender-recipient
pair per day (default: 3).
The system shall allow users to disable nudges from specific members.
The system shall deliver nudges as push notifications with custom text
including the goal name and sender name.
The system shall log all nudge events in the nudge_logs table.

FR-007 SCREEN TIME MONITORING
The system shall collect per-app foreground usage data via Android
UsageStatsManager and iOS Screen Time API with explicit user consent.
The system shall aggregate daily screen time into a Focus tab showing:
total screen time, per-app breakdown, timeline graph.
The system shall share screen time data with circle members or my friend / girlfriend / boyfriend as per my relation and per the
sharer's consent settings.
The system shall allow users to hide specific apps from the shared report accounting for how many daily task / goals / challenges they had dont today and what they can improve they will write at the end of the day to be accountable and it would be shared to the their partner or friend or the circle.
The system shall allow users to set usage thresholds for specific apps and
trigger alerts when exceeded.
The system shall purge raw screen time data after 30 days.
The system shall batch-sync screen time data daily to minimize battery
impact.

FR-008 FOCUS INTERVENTIONS
The system shall allow any circle member with permission to send a focus
alert push notification to a partner about an overused app.
The system shall allow any circle member with timeout permission to
initiate a temporary app lock on a partner's device for a specific app
and duration (15, 30, or 60 minutes).
The system shall implement a 10-second grace period before a timeout lock
activates during which the target user can see the incoming timeout.
The system shall allow the target user to override a timeout after a
5-minute cooldown period.
The system shall log all intervention events (initiator, target, app,
type, duration, status, override) in the intervention_log table.
The system shall exclude system-critical apps (phone dialer, emergency
services, the GrowCircle app itself) from the lockable app list.
The system shall defer a timeout if the target user is on an active call.
When hardware app-locking is unsupported, the system shall fall back to a
full-screen reminder overlay.
Circle admin shall be able to set a maximum number of timeouts per day
that any member can receive.

FR-009 COMMUNICATION — CHAT
The system shall provide persistent text chat per circle (group thread)
and per member pair (one-on-one thread).
Chat shall support text, emoji, and media attachments (progress
screenshots, images).
The system shall deliver chat messages in real time via WebSocket.
The system shall store messages indefinitely unless deleted by the sender.


FR-010 COMMUNICATION — CALLS
The system shall support one-on-one and group voice and video calls
within the circle.
During an active call, the system shall display a progress dashboard
overlay so users can review goals without ending the call.

The system shall log call metadata (start time, end time, participants)
without recording content.
The system shall not record any call audio or video content.

FR-011 COMMUNICATION — SCREEN SHARING
The system shall allow a member to request a live screen share from
another member.
Screen sharing shall require per-session explicit consent from the sharer.
The system shall allow users to configure auto-accept for screen share
requests from specific members during defined time windows.

Either party shall be able to end a screen share session at any time.
The system shall log session metadata (start/end time) without storing
the screen content.

FR-012 CHALLENGE SYSTEM
The system shall allow any circle member to create a challenge specifying:
condition (specific goal + target or new custom goal), stake (points, manual
IOU money, or forfeit description), deadline (date and time), proof
requirement, and participants (subset of circle members).
The system shall track progress for all challenge participants using their
regular activity logs.
The system shall automatically evaluate and declare a winner at the
deadline based on logged data.
The system shall apply a predefined tie-breaking rule (configurable:
extend by N days, or split stake).
The system shall record the outcome (winner, loser, stake) in the
challenge record.
The system shall handle mid-challenge withdrawal as an automatic loss for
the withdrawing member, with the stake forfeited.
The system shall provide a dispute mechanism: either participant can
flag an outcome, submit evidence, and trigger admin review.
The system shall award relevant XP and badges on challenge completion.

FR-013 GAMIFICATION


The system shall calculate and update the Daily Performance Score in real
time as logs are submitted.
The system shall calculate Consistency Score, Growth Score, Discipline
Score, and Accountability Score daily via a batch job running at midnight.
The system shall maintain a current streak counter (consecutive days with
>=80% goal completion, minimum 2 active goals).
The system shall reset the streak to zero if a day is missed without grace.
The system shall allow grace mode: pauses streak for up to 2 consecutive
days or editable, maximum 2 days per calendar monthor editable.
The system shall support streak freeze items that can be applied once per
occurrence to save a streak for one day automatically.
The system shall maintain longest streak as a historical stat.
The system shall award XP per completed goal: 10 XP base for binary
completion; numeric goals scale by actual/target ratio; +5 XP for proof
upload; streak multiplier 2x starting from day 7 of a streak.
The system shall never decrease total accumulated XP.
The system shall calculate user level using: Level = floor(sqrt(total XP
/ 100)).
The system shall define badges triggered by specific events (milestone,
achievement, social, challenge, consistency categories) and award them
permanently once earned.
The system shall support multi-step achievement quests with progress bars
and XP/badge rewards on completion.
The system shall maintain a circle leaderboard togglable by: Daily
Performance, Weekly XP, Consistency Score, Accountability Score.
The system shall support a global anonymized leaderboard as opt-in.
The system shall compute a Circle Score as the aggregate performance
of all members for team spirit visibility.
All gamification calculations shall be server-side to prevent client-side
manipulation.

FR-014 SCORING SYSTEM (detailed logic in Section 16)
The system shall compute and store five scores per user per day:
Daily Performance Score (0-100), Consistency Score (0-100), Growth
Score (0-100), Discipline Score (0-100), Accountability Score (0-100).
All scores shall be visible to circle members or partner or friend by default, with the option
for individual users to mark specific scores as private.


SECTION 7. NON-FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS


NFR-001 PERFORMANCE
API response time for standard CRUD operations: p95 < 300ms.
Real-time feed update latency via WebSocket: < 500ms end-to-end.
App cold start time on mid-range device: < 2 seconds.
Media upload (50 MB video): progress indication, background upload
supported.
Dashboard aggregation query: < 1 second for circles up to 10 members.

NFR-002 AVAILABILITY
Platform uptime: 99.9% monthly SLA (excluding scheduled maintenance).
Maintenance windows: maximum 2 hours per month, at low-traffic hours,
with 48-hour advance notice.
Critical services (auth, logging, streak calculation): no single point
of failure; active-passive failover minimum.

NFR-003 SCALABILITY
Architecture shall support horizontal scaling of stateless services.
WebSocket connections shall be shardable by Circle ID.
Media delivery shall use CDN.
Database shall support read replicas for dashboard and feed queries.
System shall handle up to 100,000 concurrent WebSocket connections at
launch without architecture redesign.

NFR-004 RELIABILITY
Offline log queue shall persist across app restarts using local storage.
Media uploads shall resume from interruption point (chunked upload).
Streak calculations shall be idempotent — safe to re-run on crash.
Challenge evaluation shall be atomic — winner declared exactly once.

NFR-005 SECURITY
All API communication: HTTPS with TLS 1.2+.
User passwords: bcrypt hashed with cost factor >= 12.
Media files: stored in private object storage with signed URL access.
Consent records for digital wellbeing features: immutable audit log.
Rate limiting on all public endpoints.
JWT tokens with 15-minute expiry and refresh token rotation.
All user data access scoped by circle membership validation on every
request.

NFR-006 PRIVACY
GDPR and CCPA compliance: right to export data, right to delete account
and all associated data.
Clear privacy policy disclosing all data collection, including screen
time data.
Screen time data: raw per-app logs purged after 30 days; aggregated
daily totals retained for 1 year.
Call and screen share content: never stored.
Consent for all digital wellbeing features: explicit opt-in, revocable
at any time, logged with timestamp and reason.

NFR-007 COMPATIBILITY
Mobile platforms: iOS 15+ and Android 10+ And mainly android16and above. ( no we will bring for ios later)
Screen time monitoring: iOS 15+ (ScreenTime API / Family Controls
entitlement), Android 10+ (UsageStatsManager).
App locking: Android 8+ (Accessibility Service), iOS 15+ (Family ( no we will bring for ios later)
Controls). Fallback overlay for unsupported versions.
Tablet support: responsive layout for iPad and Android tablets.
No web app at MVP; web admin panel only.

NFR-008 ACCESSIBILITY
WCAG 2.1 AA compliance for all in-app text, icons, and interactive
elements.
Support Dynamic Type / font scaling for iOS and Android.
All interactive elements have sufficient contrast ratios (4.5:1 minimum).
Screen reader support for primary navigation flows.

NFR-009 LOCALIZATION
English at MVP. Architecture shall support multi-locale from day one
(i18n strings, locale-aware date/time, currency formatting for wagers).
RTL layout support considered in design system.

NFR-010 DATA RETENTION

Messages: retained indefinitely unless deleted by sender.
Screen time snapshots: raw data 30 days, daily totals 1 year.
Intervention logs: 6 months.
Call and screen share metadata: 90 days.
After account deletion: all personal data purged within 3 days;
anonymized aggregate analytics retained.


SECTION 8. COMPLETE FEATURE SPECIFICATIONS


FEATURE 8.1 — USER AUTHENTICATION AND PROFILE MANAGEMENT

Purpose: Secure identity establishment and profile representation.

Description: User registers via email or phone number. Profile includes
display name, avatar photo, bio (optional), timezone (used for streak and
daily goal generation), and notification preferences. Users can be in
multiple circles with the same account.

User Flow:
Step 1: App Introduction Experience

Upon launching the app for the first time, users should experience a visually stunning, highly interactive onboarding sequence featuring modern glassmorphic design, fluid animations, dynamic motion, and emotionally engaging storytelling.

The introduction should not explain features first.

Instead, it should communicate a powerful realization:

"Most people fail their goals because nobody knows when they quit."

The onboarding experience should visually contrast two worlds:

• Traditional self-improvement: private goals, forgotten habits, abandoned challenges, declining motivation, and isolation.

• GrowCircle: visible commitments, trusted accountability partners, shared progress, real-time encouragement, healthy competition, proof-based achievements, challenges with stakes, and collective growth.

Users should feel that they are entering a system where their goals matter because someone else can see them, support them, challenge them, and celebrate them.

By the end of the experience, users should clearly understand that GrowCircle is not a habit tracker, productivity tool, or social network.

It is a social accountability platform that transforms self-improvement from a solitary activity into a shared commitment driven by visibility, competition, support, and meaningful human connection.

Primary emotional outcome:
Users should feel excited, accountable, connected, competitive, and eager to invite someone important into their growth journey before even creating their first goal.
 
Step 2: Tap "Sign Up" — enter name, email or phone, password.
Step 3: Verify email (magic link) or phone (SMS OTP).
Step 4: Upload profile photo (optional, can skip).
Step 5: Onboarding wizard begins (circle creation or join).

Inputs: Name (2-50 chars), email or phone, password (min 8 chars, 1 number
1 special), optional profile photo (JPEG/PNG, max 5 MB).

Outputs: Authenticated session, user profile record, JWT access token
and refresh token pair.

Data Stored: users table — id, name, email, phone, password_hash,
avatar_url, bio, timezone, created_at, last_active_at, account_status,
plan (free/pro), age_verified_at.

Business Rules:
- Email or phone must be unique system-wide.
- Users under 18 attempting screen time / timeout features must have
  parental consent recorded in the system.
- Minimum age: 13. Platform shall not knowingly onboard users under 13.
- Users can update profile fields except email/phone (requires re-verification).

Permissions: User manages own profile only.

Dependencies: Email service (SendGrid), SMS service (Twilio), object storage
for avatar.

Edge Cases:
- Duplicate email/phone: return clear error "Account already exists,
  try logging in."
- OTP expiry (10 minutes): user can request a new OTP, max 5 times per
  session.
- Avatar upload failure: silently skip, use default avatar, retry
  available in settings.

Frontend Requirements:
- Registration screen, login screen, forgot password screen.
- Profile edit screen with avatar cropper.
- Notification preferences screen.

Backend Requirements:
- Auth service: register, login, refresh token, logout, delete account.
- Profile service: CRUD profile fields.
- Email/SMS delivery queue with retry logic.

API Requirements:
POST /auth/register — body: {name, email, phone, password}
POST /auth/login — body: {credential, password}
POST /auth/refresh — body: {refresh_token}
POST /auth/logout — invalidates refresh token
POST /auth/forgot-password — sends reset link
PUT /users/:id/profile — update profile fields
GET /users/:id/profile — get public profile data

Security: Passwords never stored in plain text. Refresh tokens stored
server-side with one-time use and rotation. Account lockout after 10
failed login attempts (exponential backoff).



FEATURE 8.2 — GROWTH CIRCLE MANAGEMENT

Purpose: Establish the core social unit and define shared permissions.

Description: A Growth Circle is a named, private group of 2-10 users who
share a goal tracking context. The creator becomes Circle Owner. Members
join via invite link or code. All circle-level settings are controlled
by the owner. Goals, logs, and gamification data are isolated per circle.
A user can create multiple circles and join others; they select one active
circle at a time for the dashboard view.

User Flow — Create Circle:
Step 1: Dashboard → "+" → "Create Circle"
Step 2: Enter circle name and optional description.
Step 3: Configure privacy (private — invite only, no public discovery).
Step 4: Configure default permissions: timeout allowed (yes/no),
        timeout permission type (mutual or owner-grants-per-member),
        leaderboard visibility (all visible / opt-in), max stake type
        (points-only / IOU / cash when available).
Step 5: System generates invite code and shareable link.
Step 6: Share invite; wait for members to join.
Step 7: Optionally trigger group onboarding flow for all members.

User Flow — Join Circle:
Step 1: Receive invite link or code.
Step 2: Open link (deep link into app) or enter code in "Join Circle."
Step 3: Preview circle (name, member count, no private data visible).
Step 4: Tap "Join."
Step 5: Grant consent for data sharing (baseline + optional digital
        wellbeing permissions).
Step 6: Proceed to goal setup.

Inputs (Create): Circle name (3-50 chars), optional description
(max 200 chars), permission settings.
Inputs (Join): Invite code or link.

Outputs (Create): New circle record, invite link, invite code.
Outputs (Join): Membership record, consent record, redirect to onboarding.

Data Stored:
circles — id, name, description, owner_id, invite_code, privacy_level,
           timeout_permission_type, leaderboard_visibility,
           max_stake_type, created_at, disbanded_at.
circle_members — id, circle_id, user_id, role (owner/member),
                 joined_at, left_at, status (active/removed/left).
consent_records — id, user_id, circle_id, feature (screen_time /
                  timeout / screen_share), granted_at, revoked_at,
                  device_id.

Business Rules:
- Circle size: minimum 2, maximum 10 (MVP).
- Invite link expires after 7 days; owner can regenerate.
- Owner cannot leave circle without transferring ownership or disbanding.
- Disbanding circle: all member data remains accessible to each member
  individually but feed visibility ends; chat export offered.
- Circle switching: user selects active circle; all dashboard views
  reflect selected circle.
- Goals and logs are circle-scoped; same goal cannot appear in two
  circles automatically (must be manually re-created or cloned).
- User can mute notifications from a specific circle without leaving.

Permissions:
- Owner: all management actions.
- Member: view feed, log goals, send nudges, initiate allowed interventions.
- Platform Admin: disband circles, resolve disputes.

Dependencies: Invite link generation (unique token), deep linking, consent
management service.

Edge Cases:
- User attempts to join a circle they are already in: "You are already
  a member of this circle."
- Invite link used when circle is at 10-member cap: error with
  "Circle is full."
- Owner removed from own circle: not possible; owner must transfer
  ownership first.
- Member removed mid-challenge: challenge records are preserved;
  removed member's logs up to removal are counted for fair evaluation.

Frontend Requirements:
- Circle creation wizard (multi-step).
- Circle settings screen (owner only).
- Circle switcher dropdown or bottom sheet.
- Member list screen with roles, joined dates, and removal option
  (owner only).
- Invite share sheet.
- Consent permission screen during join flow.

Backend Requirements:
- Circle service: CRUD circles, membership management.
- Invite service: generate/validate tokens, expire management.
- Consent service: record, revoke, audit log all consent actions.

API Requirements:
POST /circles — create circle
GET /circles/:id — get circle details
PUT /circles/:id — update circle settings (owner only)
DELETE /circles/:id — disband circle (owner only)
POST /circles/:id/invite — generate new invite
POST /circles/join — join via code or token
DELETE /circles/:id/members/:user_id — remove member (owner only)
PUT /circles/:id/members/:user_id/role — transfer ownership
GET /circles — list user's circles
GET /circles/:id/members — list members with roles and consent status

Security: All circle data access validated by membership check on every
request. Invite tokens are single-use-per-user (same user cannot join
twice with same link). Rate limit join attempts to prevent invite
enumeration.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FEATURE 8.3 — GOAL AND TEMPLATE SYSTEM

Purpose: Enable fully customizable personal goal definition and template-based
quick-start.

Description: Each user independently creates, manages, and tracks their own
goals. Goals are not shared definitions — each person has their own goal
card. A goal defines what to do and when. The system generates daily
instances automatically. Goal templates are pre-configured packs that users
can import and then customize.

User Flow — Create Custom Goal:
Step 1: Dashboard → "Add Goal" (or "+" from goal list screen).
Step 2: Enter goal name.
Step 3: Select goal type: Binary, Numeric (enter target value + unit),
        Time-based (enter duration), Custom (open text).
Step 4: Set schedule: Daily / Specific days / Weekly N times /
        Custom date range.
Step 5: Select or create category (with emoji picker).
Step 6: Optional: Add sub-tasks or milestones (list of text items with
        optional target values).
Step 7: Toggle "Require proof before completion" if desired.
Step 8: Save. Goal appears in active goal list. Daily instances generated.

User Flow — Import Template:
Step 1: Dashboard → "Add Goal" → "Browse Templates"
   OR: During onboarding wizard → "Browse Templates."
Step 2: Browse categories (Fitness, Learning, Mindfulness, Productivity,
        Wellness, Digital Detox, Custom).
Step 3: Preview template pack (goal list, descriptions, sample schedules).
Step 4: Tap "Add to My Goals."
Step 5: System clones each template goal into user's account.
Step 6: User can then edit any field of the cloned goal.

Inputs (Create): Goal metadata as above.
Inputs (Import): Template selection.

Outputs: Active goal card, daily GoalInstances generated per schedule.

Data Stored:
goals — id, user_id, circle_id, name, type (binary/numeric/time/custom),
        target_value, target_unit, schedule_type, schedule_days (JSON array),
        schedule_weekly_frequency, schedule_start_date, schedule_end_date,
        category, category_emoji, require_proof, status (active/paused/
        archived), created_at, updated_at, template_source_id (nullable).

goal_milestones — id, goal_id, label, target_value, order_index.

goal_templates — id, name, description, category, gender_tag (nullable),
                 created_by_admin, is_active, locale, version, goals_json.

goal_instances — id, goal_id, user_id, circle_id, date, target_value,
                 actual_value, completion_fraction, status (pending/
                 completed/skipped/grace), created_at, updated_at.

Business Rules:
- Free plan: maximum 10 active goals per circle.
- Pro plan: unlimited active goals per circle.
- Paused goals do not generate daily instances and do not affect streak
  calculation.
- Archived goals retain all historical logs; instances cease generating.
- Changing a goal's schedule mid-streak: streak continues from last
  completed day; the new schedule applies from the next instance.
- Changing target value mid-streak: goal retains historical target values
  per log; future instances use new target. Streak unaffected.
- Cloned goals have no link to the original after cloning; changes to
  the template do not propagate to user goals.
- Template versioning: admin can update templates without affecting
  existing cloned user goals.
- Duplicate detection on template import: if a user has a goal with
  same name and category, warn but do not block import.
- Sub-tasks are optional checklist items within a goal log entry;
  they do not independently affect completion fraction unless explicitly
  configured.

Permissions: User can only create, edit, pause, archive, and delete their
own goals.

Dependencies: Scheduler for daily instance generation (cron job at
midnight per timezone), template management backend.

Edge Cases:
- User in multiple circles creates the same goal in both: allowed;
  instances are separate, logs are separate.
- Goal with no schedule end date: runs indefinitely until paused/archived.
- User changes timezone: affects future instance generation; historical
  instances unaffected.
- Goal deleted with existing logs: logs retained with goal reference
  marked as deleted; do not include deleted goal in streak calculation.
- Template imported when at goal limit (Free): show upgrade prompt.

Frontend Requirements:
- Goal creation modal/screen with dynamic form based on goal type.
- Category picker with emoji support.
- Sub-task builder (add/remove items).
- Goal list screen with filter (active/paused/archived) and sort
  (category, created date, completion rate).
- Template gallery with search, category filter, and pack preview.
- Goal detail screen showing historical completion graph.
- Goal edit screen (same as creation with pre-filled values).

Backend Requirements:
- Goal service: CRUD goals, clone from template.
- Instance generation service: cron job generates GoalInstances per
  user per timezone; idempotent (safe to re-run).
- Template service: admin CRUD for templates; versioning.

API Requirements:
POST /goals — create goal
GET /goals — list user's goals for active circle (filter by status)
GET /goals/:id — goal detail with completion stats
PUT /goals/:id — update goal
DELETE /goals/:id — delete goal (soft delete)
POST /goals/:id/pause — pause goal
POST /goals/:id/archive — archive goal
POST /goals/:id/clone — clone goal to same or different circle
GET /goal-instances?date=YYYY-MM-DD — get daily checklist
GET /templates — list template packs
GET /templates/:id — template detail
POST /goals/import-template/:template_id — import template pack

Security: All goal endpoints validate circle membership for the requested
circle_id. Users cannot access other users' goals via API.



FEATURE 8.4 — ACTIVITY LOGGING AND PROOF UPLOAD

Purpose: Record daily goal completion with verifiable evidence.

Description: The daily checklist presents all GoalInstances for today.
Users mark goals complete (binary), enter an actual value (numeric),
or stop a timer (time-based). For goals with proof requirement, proof
must be attached before completion is allowed. Logs are immediately
reflected in the partner feed.

User Flow:
Step 1: Open app → Home screen → "Today" section shows daily checklist.
Step 2: Tap a goal item.
Step 3: For Binary: tap "Mark Complete."
        For Numeric: enter actual value in text field, tap "Log."
        For Time-based: tap "Start Timer" → timer runs in background
          → tap "Stop" → confirms elapsed time → log submitted.
        For Custom: enter free text note.
Step 4: Optional / Required: attach proof — take photo/video now, or
        select from gallery, or upload screenshot. Video max 30 seconds.
Step 5: Tap "Submit."
Step 6: Log created; partners receive push notification; feed updates.
Step 7: Completion fraction calculated; scores updated.

Inputs: GoalInstance ID, completion status, actual value (if numeric),
elapsed time (if time-based), optional media file, timestamp (device
clock, server-verified).

Outputs: ActivityLog record created, partners notified, GoalInstance
status updated, Daily Performance Score updated, XP awarded.

Data Stored:
activity_logs — id, goal_instance_id, goal_id, user_id, circle_id, date,
                target_value, actual_value, completion_fraction, status
                (completed/partial/skipped), proof_url (nullable),
                proof_type (photo/video/screenshot/document/none),
                logged_at, edited_at, is_late_edit, notes.

media_objects — id, owner_user_id, associated_log_id, storage_key,
                cdn_url, file_type, file_size_bytes, duration_seconds,
                uploaded_at.

Business Rules:
- A GoalInstance can have only one ActivityLog (one log per goal per day).
- Editing a log is allowed within 24 hours of original logged_at.
- Edits after 24 hours: allowed but flagged as late-edit (is_late_edit=true).
  Late edits negatively affect Discipline Score.
- If a goal requires proof and none is attached: submission blocked with
  error message.
- Video proof: maximum 30 seconds duration, maximum 50 MB, formats:
  MP4, MOV, AVI.
- Photo proof: maximum 10 MB, formats: JPEG, PNG, HEIC.
- Document proof: maximum 20 MB, format: PDF only.
- Offline logging: client stores log in local queue (SQLite or similar),
  retries on connectivity restore, deduplication by client-generated UUID.
- Completion fraction for numeric goals: min(actual/target, 1.0). Values
  above target count as 1.0 (over-delivery is not penalized but not
  double-rewarded).
- Partial completion (fraction < 1.0) still creates a log; the goal
  is not marked "completed" in streak calculation unless fraction >= 0.8
  (configurable threshold, default 0.8).

Permissions: User can only log their own GoalInstances. All logs visible
to circle members per circle visibility settings.

Dependencies: Object storage (AWS S3 / Cloudinary), CDN, WebSocket event
broadcast, push notification service, gamification engine.

Edge Cases:
- User logs a goal then their device goes offline: if the server has not
  received the log, the client resumes. If the server received the log
  but the client did not get the ACK, deduplication by client UUID
  prevents double-logging.
- User tries to log a future date: blocked server-side (no future
  GoalInstances exist).
- User tries to log a past date beyond 24 hours: allowed but flagged.
- Video duration > 30 seconds: client-side validation rejects before
  upload; show error "Video must be under 30 seconds."
- Partner feed: logged proof thumbnails are accessible only to circle
  members via signed URLs (time-limited, no public access).

Frontend Requirements:
- Daily checklist component with swipe-to-complete or tap interaction.
- Timer widget with start/stop/pause and elapsed time display.
- Numeric input field with unit label.
- Media picker (camera, gallery, screenshot) with preview before submit.
- Upload progress indicator.
- Edit log screen (same as log screen with pre-filled values and "edited"
  indicator).
- Offline queue indicator (status pill showing pending uploads).

Backend Requirements:
- Logging service: accept log, validate ownership and GoalInstance
  existence, calculate completion_fraction, trigger events.
- Media service: generate pre-signed upload URLs for direct-to-S3 client
  upload; validate file on server after upload; generate CDN URL.
- Event bus: emit "log_created" event to feed service, gamification
  engine, notification service.
- Deduplication: log creation idempotent by client_generated_uuid field.

API Requirements:
GET /goal-instances?date=YYYY-MM-DD&circle_id=X — daily checklist
POST /logs — create activity log (body includes goal_instance_id,
             completion data, client_uuid)
PUT /logs/:id — edit activity log (within edit window)
GET /logs?user_id=X&date_from=Y&date_to=Z — log history
GET /logs/:id — single log detail with proof URL
POST /media/upload-url — request pre-signed upload URL
POST /media/confirm — confirm upload complete, register media object

Security: Pre-signed URLs expire in 15 minutes. Proof media access gated
by circle membership check on every signed URL generation request.
Client-side UUID for deduplication stored and not trusted for other
purposes.



FEATURE 8.5 — PARTNER FEED AND MONITORING

Purpose: Real-time visibility into every circle member's daily progress.

Description: The home screen displays a scrollable feed of partner cards.
Each card shows the partner's name, avatar, today's goal completion
summary (e.g., "4 of 5 completed"), current streak, any proof thumbnails
from today's logs, and the time of last activity. Tapping a proof
thumbnail opens the full media view. Members can react with emoji.
The feed updates in real time as partners log activities.

User Flow:
Step 1: Open app → Home screen (default to Partner Feed if circle has
        at least 2 members).
Step 2: Scroll through partner cards.
Step 3: Tap a partner card to expand — see full goal list with statuses
        for that partner today.
Step 4: Tap a proof thumbnail — full-screen media viewer with proof
        type, timestamp, and goal name.
Step 5: Tap emoji reaction button — picker appears, select reaction —
        reaction added to log entry and notified to the logger.
Step 6: Tap nudge bell icon on an incomplete goal in a partner's list
        → nudge confirmation → nudge sent.

Inputs: Real-time log events from circle members.

Outputs: Updated feed cards, emoji reactions, nudge triggers.

Data Stored: Derived view over activity_logs, goal_instances, users,
gamification_profiles. Reactions stored in log_reactions table:
(id, log_id, user_id, emoji, created_at).

Business Rules:
- Feed shows only today's data by default; tab/toggle for historical
  view (last 7 days).
- If a member has hidden a goal (sensitive goals), that goal does not
  appear in the feed or expanded view — not even as "hidden."
- Members who have left the circle do not appear in the feed.
- Members with no active goals show a "No goals set yet" placeholder.
- Proof thumbnails for video show a play button overlay.

Permissions: Feed visible to all active circle members. Hidden goals
are fully invisible to circle members. Platform admin can access
all logs for dispute resolution only.

Dependencies: WebSocket connection per user session, push notification
service, CDN for proof media delivery.

Edge Cases:
- User is in multiple circles: feed shows the selected active circle.
- Partner has not logged anything today by 8 PM: optional "late
  completion" alert can be configured by the user for their own goals
  (not to alert partners about others).
- Network disconnect while viewing feed: show stale data with "Last
  updated at [time]" indicator; auto-reconnect and refresh.

Frontend Requirements:
- Feed component with real-time WebSocket subscription.
- Partner card component: avatar, name, streak badge, progress
  fraction ring (visual), proof thumbnails row.
- Expanded partner view: full goal list with status icons.
- Media viewer: full screen, swipe through multiple proofs.
- Emoji reaction picker.
- Nudge button on incomplete goals.
- Reconnection indicator and stale-data warning.

Backend Requirements:
- Feed aggregation service: on "log_created" event, recompute partner
  card data for the circle and broadcast via WebSocket.
- WebSocket gateway: per-circle channels; authenticate on connection.
- Reaction service: store reactions, notify log owner.

API Requirements:
GET /circles/:id/feed?date=YYYY-MM-DD — full day feed for circle
GET /circles/:id/feed/realtime — WebSocket endpoint
POST /logs/:id/reactions — add emoji reaction
DELETE /logs/:id/reactions/:reaction_id — remove own reaction
GET /users/:id/summary?date=YYYY-MM-DD — single partner summary



SECTION 9. USER FLOWS AND WORKFLOWS


WORKFLOW 9.1 — ONBOARDING FLOW (NEW USER)

Step 1  — Splash / Landing Screen with explanation above already given 
         App open → GrowCircle branding → "Get Started" or "Log In."

Step 2  — Registration
         Enter name, email or phone number, password.
         Tap "Sign Up" → OTP or email verification.
         Verify → account created.

Step 3  — Profile Setup
         Upload photo (skip available).
         Set timezone (auto-detected, editable).

Step 4  — Circle Decision
         Two options displayed:
         A) "Create a Circle — I want to build a group"
         B) "Join a Circle — I have an invite"

Step 5A — Create Circle (if A selected)
         Enter circle name.
         Configure permissions (defaults provided, editable).
         System generates invite code and link.
         Share invite with future members.
         Proceed to Step 6.

Step 5B — Join Circle (if B selected)
         Enter invite code or open invite link.
         Preview circle info.
         Accept and join.
         Grant permissions (required: activity visibility; optional:
         screen time, timeout, screen share — each with clear explanation).
         Proceed to Step 6.

Step 6  — Goal Setup
         Option A: "Browse Templates" — template gallery.
         Option B: "Create Custom Goal" — goal creation form.
         Option C: "Skip for Now" — go directly to dashboard (prompted
         to add goals from dashboard).

Step 7  — Quick Tutorial (3 swipeable cards)
         Card 1: "Log your daily goals here." (dashboard preview)
         Card 2: "Watch your circle's progress in real time." (feed preview)
         Card 3: "Compete, nudge, and grow together." (gamification preview)

Step 8  — Dashboard (onboarding complete, persistent entry point).



WORKFLOW 9.2 — DAILY USAGE LOOP

Morning:
1. Open app → Home Dashboard (Partner Feed).
2. View partner cards — who completed what overnight [ add this feature i forgot to add above, feature : the app would record that after 11:30pm wehter the friend / partner ahd used the phone or not if the screen time after 11:30 would be even 1 second then it would tell the boyfriend / friend / circl emembers that this person was up at late niht which would help to know that, ht is not using the app overnight so that we can fix their sleep cycle!] / early morning.
3. Switch to "Today" tab — own daily checklist.
4. Review pending goals for the day.

Throughout Day:
5. After completing a real-world activity, open app.
6. Tap goal in checklist.
7. Enter value or tap complete.
8. Attach proof if required or optional.
9. Submit → notification sent to circle → feed updates.
10. View partner feed — see their updates in real time.
11. Send emoji reaction or nudge if appropriate.

Focus Tab (Digital Wellbeing):
12. Open Focus tab → own screen time chart.
13. View partner's screen time (if shared).
14. Send focus alert or initiate timeout if partner overusing an app.

Communication:
15. Tap chat icon → send message in circle or one-on-one.
16. Tap call icon → initiate voice/video call.
17. During call: view progress overlay.

Evening Recap (Push Notification — 9 PM default):
18. "Today's Summary: You completed 4/5 goals. Circle Performance: 78%.
    Aarav is on a 15-day streak!"
19. Open app → recap view → review scores → plan tomorrow.



WORKFLOW 9.3 — CHALLENGE LIFECYCLE

Phase 1 — Proposal:
1. Member A taps "Create Challenge."
2. Fills in condition (specific goal target or custom condition),
   stake (points / IOU / forfeit), deadline, proof requirement.
3. Selects participants from circle member list.
4. Taps "Send Challenge."
5. All selected participants receive push notification.

Phase 2 — Acceptance:
6. Each participant opens challenge card — reviews terms.
7. Taps "Accept" or "Decline."
8. If all accept: challenge becomes Active.
9. If any decline: challenge is cancelled (proposer notified).

Phase 3 — Active Tracking:
10. Challenge card appears on dashboards of all participants.
11. Progress tracked from existing activity logs or new challenge-
    specific logs.
12. Daily standings visible on challenge card (if leaderboard-type).

Phase 4 — Resolution:
13. At deadline: system evaluates all participant logs.
14. Winner determined by condition logic (first to achieve goal /
    highest completion rate / most streak days, etc.).
15. System broadcasts outcome notification.
16. Winner badge and XP awarded.
17. Challenge outcome record created with winner_id, outcome_type,
    stake_description, resolved_at.

Phase 5 — Dispute (Optional):
18. Either participant taps "Dispute Outcome" within 48 hours.
19. Evidence (logs, proof media) submitted via dispute form.
20. Admin receives dispute ticket.
21. Admin reviews evidence and makes final ruling.
22. System updates outcome and notifies participants.

Phase 6 — Penalty / Reward:
23. If cash/IOU stake: system records debt in challenge record.
    Payment handled manually (IOU); future: in-app escrow.
24. Loser's penalty recorded ("did 50 burpees on video") — optional
    proof from loser.



WORKFLOW 9.4 — GRACE MODE ACTIVATION

1. Profile → "Grace Mode" → Activate.
2. Select duration: 1 day or 2 days.
3. System checks remaining grace days for current calendar month
   (max 2 days/month).
4. If available: grace mode activates.
   If exhausted: error "No grace days remaining this month."
5. Streak paused — not broken, not counting forward.
6. Daily instances still generated but not counted in streak calculation
   for grace period.
7. Circle members notified with supportive message (no goal details
   visible, just "User activated Grace Mode").
8. Grace mode auto-deactivates after chosen duration.
9. Streak resumes counting from next active day.
10. Partner can gift a grace day (if they have grace days remaining and
    choose to transfer one).



WORKFLOW 9.5 — TIMEOUT INTERVENTION

1. Member A opens Focus tab → Partner section.
2. Views Partner B's screen time chart.
3. Sees Instagram at 2 hours for the day — exceeds threshold.
4. Taps "Instagram" → action options: "Send Alert" / "Set Timeout."
5. Taps "Set Timeout" → selects duration (15 / 30 / 60 minutes).
6. Taps "Send."
7. System checks: does Partner B have timeout permission granted to Member A
   (or is global timeout enabled in circle settings)?
   If yes: proceed. If no: show "B hasn't granted you timeout permission."
8. Partner B receives push notification: "A has set a 30-min timeout on
   Instagram. Starting in 5 seconds."
9. Grace period: 5-second countdown shown to Partner B.
10. After grace period: app lock activates on Partner B's device.
11. Timeout logged in intervention_log.
12. Partner B can override after 5-minute cooldown — tapping override
    shows the cooldown timer.
13. Both parties see action log in Focus tab: "A timed out Instagram
    for 30 min on [time]."
14. After timeout duration: lock automatically lifts.
    If Partner B overrode: lock lifts immediately after override.


SECTION 10. INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE


TOP LEVEL NODES (App Sections)

Home (Partner Feed)
   Today (Own Checklist)
   Circle Feed (Partner Cards)
   Reactions and Nudges

Goals
   Active Goals (Daily Checklist)
   Goal Library (All Goals)
   Add Goal
      Custom Creation
      Template Browser
   Goal Detail and History

Focus (Digital Wellbeing)
   My Screen Time
      Daily Chart
      Per-App Breakdown
      Timeline
   Partner Screen Time (per member)
   Focus Alerts History
   Timeout Log

Challenges
   Active Challenges
   Completed Challenges
   Create Challenge
   Challenge Detail

Circle
   Feed (same as Home)
   Members List
   Leaderboard
   Chat (Group and 1-1)
   Calls
   Circle Settings (Owner only)

Profile
   Personal Stats
   Score Cards (5 scores)
   Badges
   Achievements
   Streak Calendar
   Grace Mode
   Settings
      Notification Preferences
      Privacy Settings (goal visibility, score visibility)
      Permission Management (screen time, timeout, screen share)
      Account Settings
      Subscription (Free / Pro)
      Data Export
      Delete Account

Admin Panel (Web, separate from user app)
   Users
   Circles
   Templates
   Disputes
   Analytics
   Moderation
   Notifications


SECTION 11. NAVIGATION STRUCTURE


BOTTOM NAVIGATION (5 tabs, persistent)

Tab 1 — Home (house icon)
   Default screen: Partner Feed for active circle.
   Badge: count of unseen partner updates.

Tab 2 — Goals (checkmark icon)
   Default screen: Today's Checklist.
   Badge: count of incomplete goals for today.

Tab 3 — Focus (eye/screen icon) [POST-MVP for monitoring, basic in MVP]
   Default screen: Own Screen Time (if permission granted).
   Badge: alert if any partner's screen time threshold exceeded.

Tab 4 — Challenges (trophy icon)
   Default screen: Active Challenges.
   Badge: count of unresolved challenges needing action.

Tab 5 — Profile (avatar icon)
   Default screen: Own profile with scores and badges.
   No badge.

CIRCLE SWITCHER — accessible from top navigation bar (persistent).

CHAT — accessible via header icon from Home and Circle screens.

CALLS — accessible from member profile or chat thread.

TOP NAV BAR (persistent across tabs)
   Left: Circle Switcher (dropdown showing active circle name + avatar)
   Center: GrowCircle logo
   Right: Chat icon (with unread badge), Notification bell (with count)


SECTION 12. SCREEN-BY-SCREEN REQUIREMENTS


SCREEN 12.1 — HOME / PARTNER FEED

Purpose: Central accountability dashboard — see everyone's progress at once.

Components:
- Circle name header with member count.
- Own progress card at top: avatar, today's completion fraction, streak,
  score ring.
- Partner cards (scrollable): per partner — avatar, name, streak counter,
  completion fraction ring, last activity time, proof thumbnail strip
  (max 3 thumbnails, "X more" label), nudge bell button.
- Floating "Log a Goal" quick-action button (links to Goal tab's checklist).
- Real-time "Partner just completed [goal name]" toast notification.

State Variations:
- Empty state (alone in circle): "Invite someone to your circle to see
  their progress here."
- No goals set (partner): "No goals set for today."
- Partner offline > 48 hours: dim card with last-seen indicator.
- All goals completed for all members: celebration banner.

Interactions:
- Tap partner card → expand to full goal list view.
- Tap proof thumbnail → full media viewer.
- Tap nudge bell → nudge confirmation modal.
- Long-press partner card → quick actions (Nudge, Call, Chat, View Profile).

Data sources: /circles/:id/feed, WebSocket for real-time updates.



SCREEN 12.2 — TODAY'S CHECKLIST

Purpose: Primary daily action screen — log own goals.

Components:
- Date header ("Today — Monday, June 5") with progress summary
  ("3 of 7 Complete").
- Progress ring or bar showing overall day completion percentage.
- Goal cards in list:
  - Category icon + goal name.
  - Target value label (e.g., "100 push-ups").
  - Completion button (tap to log).
  - Proof required indicator (lock icon if proof required).
  - Streak mini-badge on goal card if streak > 0.
  - Completion status: green check if logged, grey circle if pending.
- "Add Goal" shortcut at bottom of list.

Goal Logging Modal (appears on tap):
- Goal name and target at top.
- For Binary: large "Mark Complete" button.
- For Numeric: numeric input with unit, actual vs target display.
- For Time-based: timer widget (Start / Stop / Lap), elapsed display.
- Proof section: "Attach Proof" (optional / required indicator).
  Sub-options: Take Photo, Record Video, Choose from Gallery, Upload Document.
- Notes field (optional, free text up to 200 chars).
- Submit button (disabled if proof required and none attached).

State Variations:
- No goals for today: empty state with "No goals scheduled for today.
  Add a goal?"
- All complete: "Perfect Day! All goals done." with celebratory animation.
- Offline mode: checklist still shows; submit queues locally with
  "Will sync when online" indicator.



SCREEN 12.3 — GOAL LIBRARY

Purpose: Manage all goals across time.

Components:
- Filter tabs: Active / Paused / Archived.
- Sort options: Category, Date Created, Completion Rate, Name.
- Goal cards with: name, category emoji, schedule summary, current
  streak, completion rate (last 30 days) as mini bar.
- "+" button to add new goal.

Goal Detail Screen (tap a goal):
- Goal name, type, target, schedule.
- Completion history calendar view (heatmap by month).
- Historical average completion rate.
- Best streak and current streak.
- Sub-tasks list (if any).
- Edit button (owner only).
- Pause / Archive / Delete actions.
- Log history list (last 30 entries).



SCREEN 12.4 — FOCUS TAB (DIGITAL WELLBEING)

Purpose: Screen time visibility and partner intervention.

Components (Own View):
- Date selector (today default, swipe left/right for previous days).
- Total screen time display (hours:minutes).
- Top apps list: app icon, app name, duration, bar chart.
- Timeline graph (hourly screen time across the day).
- Threshold alerts: list of apps with set thresholds and current status.
- "Set Threshold" button per app.

Components (Partner View, toggle):
- Partner selector dropdown (circle members who have shared screen time).
- Same layout as own view but for selected partner.
- Action buttons per app: "Send Alert" / "Set Timeout" (if permitted).
- Timeout history for this partner.

State Variations:
- Permission not granted: "Enable Screen Time Sharing in Settings" CTA.
- Partner has not shared: "Aarav hasn't shared screen time data."
- No data for selected day: "No screen time recorded for this day."



SCREEN 12.5 — CHALLENGES

Purpose: View, create, and manage structured competitions.

Active Challenges List:
- Challenge card: title, participants, deadline countdown, progress bars
  per participant, stake description.

Completed Challenges List:
- Challenge card: title, winner highlighted, outcome, stake record.

Create Challenge Screen:
- Step 1: Condition — select an existing goal or define custom condition.
- Step 2: Participants — multi-select from circle members.
- Step 3: Stake — select type (points / IOU / forfeit), enter details.
- Step 4: Deadline — date/time picker.
- Step 5: Proof — toggle required/not required.
- Step 6: Review and Send.

Challenge Detail Screen:
- Condition statement.
- Participant progress (live or daily updated).
- Stakes and deadline.
- Chat thread for this challenge (linked to circle chat or separate thread).
- Dispute button (visible after resolution for 48 hours).



SCREEN 12.6 — PROFILE

Purpose: Personal performance dashboard and account management.

Components:
- Avatar, name, level badge, current XP to next level.
- Five score cards in a row (Daily Performance, Consistency, Growth,
  Discipline, Accountability) — each tappable for detailed explanation.
- Current streak and longest streak display.
- Badge collection (grid view, locked badges shown as silhouettes).
- Achievement quests (progress bars for in-progress achievements).
- Streak calendar (GitHub-style heatmap, last 12 months).
- Stats summary: total goals logged, total XP, circles joined,
  challenges won, challenges lost.
- "Edit Profile" button.
- Settings gear icon (top right).

Settings Sub-screens:
- Notification Preferences (per notification type, per circle).
- Privacy Settings (per score visibility, per goal hidden status).
- Permission Management (screen time on/off, timeout on/off,
  screen share on/off — per circle).
- Account Settings (email, phone, password change).
- Subscription Management.
- Data Export (downloads JSON or PDF of all personal data).
- Delete Account (confirmation flow with data retention notice).



SCREEN 12.7 — CIRCLE SETTINGS (Owner Only)

Components:
- Circle name and description (editable).
- Member list with roles, joined dates, remove buttons.
- Transfer Ownership option.
- Invite new members (generate new link/code).
- Permission settings: timeout enabled/disabled, who can timeout whom
  (mutual / owner-defines per member), leaderboard visibility, max stake.
- Disband circle button (confirmation with data export option).
- Mute circle notifications (for owner, per device).


SECTION 13. UX REQUIREMENTS


UX-001 LOADING AND FEEDBACK
Every user action that triggers an API call shall show immediate optimistic
UI feedback (mark goal complete instantly, then confirm/rollback on server
response). Loading spinners used only for initial data loads. Skeleton
screens used for partner feed during initial load.

UX-002 EMPTY STATES
Every list screen shall have a purposeful empty state with a clear
description and a primary action CTA. No blank screens.

UX-003 REAL-TIME VISUAL FEEDBACK
Partner log events shall appear as subtle animated toasts on the feed
("Aarav just completed Push-ups 💪"). Streak milestones trigger a
celebratory animation (confetti, sound optional with system setting
respect). Badge unlocks show a full-screen or overlay modal with badge
detail and dismiss.

UX-004 HAPTIC FEEDBACK
Complete a goal → success haptic (medium impact). Receive a nudge →
notification haptic. Timeout received → strong haptic to emphasize
intervention.

UX-005 ACCESSIBILITY
All interactive elements minimum 44x44 pt touch target. Color is not the
sole means of conveying state (use icons + color). All modals focusable
and keyboard-navigable.

UX-006 ONBOARDING REDUCTION
Maximum 3 screens before the user can start using core features.
Permission requests deferred until the feature is first accessed,
not front-loaded during registration.

UX-007 CONSENT UX
Permission requests for screen time, timeout, and screen share shall
show a clear, human-language explanation of what data is accessed and
how it is used before the OS-level permission dialog appears. Decline
path is as prominent as the accept path.

UX-008 ERROR HANDLING
Network errors: in-app banner with "Retry" option. Form validation errors:
inline below the relevant field. Server errors: friendly message with
error reference code (no raw server errors shown to users).

UX-009 DARK MODE
Full dark mode support using adaptive color system. User's device setting
auto-detected; manual override in app settings.

UX-010 MEDIA UPLOAD
Media upload shows progress bar. Upload runs in background — user can
navigate away and return. Badge/indicator shows pending upload count.
Upload can be retried on failure with clear error reason.


SECTION 14. ROLES AND PERMISSIONS


ROLE 1 — CIRCLE OWNER / CREATOR

Access to all circle management functions.
Can invite, remove, and reassign member roles.
Can configure all circle-level permission settings.
Can disband the circle.
Cannot access other members' private goals or score details beyond
what is shown in the circle-level feed.
Has same goal and logging capabilities as a regular member.
Can participate in challenges as a regular participant.

ROLE 2 — CIRCLE MEMBER

Can create, edit, pause, archive own goals.
Can log own activity and upload proof.
Can view feed of all other circle members (subject to individual
members' visibility settings).
Can send nudges to other members (subject to per-member blocking).
Can initiate focus alerts and timeouts if circle settings permit.
Can participate in challenges.
Can use communication features (chat, call, screen share).
Cannot manage other members' goals or logs.
Cannot remove other members from the circle.
Cannot change circle-level settings.

ROLE 3 — OBSERVER / COACH (FUTURE — NOT IN MVP)

Can view aggregated analytics of a circle.
Can suggest goals (surfaced as notifications or recommendations).
Cannot log activities.
Cannot send nudges or timeouts.
Cannot participate in challenges.

ROLE 4 — PLATFORM ADMIN (INTERNAL)

Full access for support, moderation, and dispute resolution.
Can disband circles.
Can disable user accounts.
Can access challenge logs and proof for dispute review.
Can manage template library.
Can send global notifications.
Cannot read private messages (E2E encrypted if enabled).

PERMISSION MATRIX (DETAILED)

Feature                  | Owner | Member | Observer | Admin
Create/edit own goals    | YES   | YES    | NO       | NO
View partner feed        | YES   | YES    | YES      | YES
Send nudge               | YES   | YES    | NO       | NO
Send focus alert         | YES   | YES*   | NO       | NO
Set timeout              | YES   | YES*   | NO       | NO
Screen share request     | YES   | YES    | NO       | NO
Create challenge         | YES   | YES    | NO       | NO
Circle settings          | YES   | NO     | NO       | YES
Remove members           | YES   | NO     | NO       | YES
View all circle data     | YES   | YES    | YES      | YES
Admin panel access       | NO    | NO     | NO       | YES
add : location, last time phone used after 11:30, every app usage per day etc if something is left to add, then add it by yourself from the whole PRD itself 

* = Subject to circle-level permission settings and individual consent grants.

CONSENT MODEL

Baseline (required for circle membership):
- Activity logs visible to circle.
- Daily completion status visible to circle.

Optional (user chooses, revocable at any time):
- Screen time data visible to circle.
- Timeout permission granted to circle members (or specific members).
- Screen share auto-accept from specific members during specific hours.

Consent revocation: immediate effect. Revoked permission cannot be
re-requested by a partner — the user must re-grant in their own settings.


SECTION 15. BUSINESS LOGIC


BL-001 MULTI-CIRCLE ISOLATION
Goals, logs, and gamification data are circle-scoped. A user in two circles
(Circle A: fitness with gym partner; Circle B: study with study group) sees
separate dashboards, separate leaderboards, separate streaks per circle. No
automatic cross-circle aggregation. The user manually selects active circle.

BL-002 STREAK CALCULATION
Streak counter increments at midnight (user's timezone).
A day counts toward the streak if: the user completed >= 80% of active goals
(minimum 2 active goals required; if < 2 active goals, streak does not count
that day).
If a day is missed (< 80% completion and no grace): streak resets to 0.
Grace mode days: do not count as a completed day, do not count as a missed
day. Streak holds at previous value.
Streak freeze item: auto-applied for one day if the user would have broken
their streak; one freeze item consumed per use.

BL-003 PLAN LIMITS (FREEMIUM)
Free plan: 1 circle, maximum 10 active goals per circle, maximum 3 timeout
actions per day (sending), basic analytics (30 days).
Pro plan: up to 5 circles, unlimited active goals, unlimited timeouts,
advanced analytics (1 year), custom badges, priority support, data export.
Limits enforced server-side; client shows upgrade prompts when limits
approached (at 80% of limit) or hit.

BL-004 CHALLENGE STAKE TYPES (MVP)
Points: in-platform XP transferred from loser to winner.
IOU: text-based stake recorded in challenge outcome (e.g., "Loser pays for
dinner"). No financial transaction in platform.
Forfeit: text description of a penalty action (e.g., "Loser does 50 burpees
on video"). Proof of fulfillment can be uploaded to the challenge record.
Cash stakes (future): requires payment integration and legal review.
Circle setting: owner can restrict allowed stake types to points-only.

BL-005 CHALLENGE TIE-BREAKING
Tie rule defined at challenge creation time.
Options: extend deadline by N days (7 default), split points stake, or
declare no winner (stake cancelled).
If participants cannot agree post-tie: admin mediation.

BL-006 CHALLENGE WITHDRAWAL PENALTY
A participant who withdraws from an active challenge is automatically
declared the loser. The full stake is forfeited or applied. This rule
is shown to all participants at challenge creation.

BL-007 NUDGE RATE LIMITING
Maximum 3 nudges per sender-recipient pair per 24-hour rolling window.
Nudges are counted per goal (not per day in total), but the cap is on
the sender-recipient pair to prevent harassment.
User can block nudges from a specific person; this preference is stored
in user_preferences and respected in the notification pipeline.

BL-008 TIMEOUT RATE LIMITING AND CONFLICTS
Maximum timeouts a user can receive per day: configurable by circle owner
(default: 5). This prevents coordinated or excessive intervention.
If multiple circle members set a timeout on the same person for the same
app simultaneously: first timeout applied, subsequent requests queued
after the first expires.
Conflicting apps: if App A is locked by timeout and a second timeout for
App B is set, App B lock queues after App A's timeout unless App B's
timeout window starts within the remaining App A time, in which case
both are active concurrently.

BL-009 GRACE MODE GIFTING
A circle member can gift a grace day to another member from their own
remaining monthly grace days.
Action: Member A has 2 grace days remaining. Taps "Gift Grace Day" on
Partner B's profile. A is debited 1 grace day. B is credited 1 grace day
(their monthly limit effectively increases by 1 from a gifted balance,
separate from the 2-day standard allocation).
Implementation: grace_day_gifts table tracks gifted days; grace_days_used
and grace_days_gifted_received tracked separately.

BL-010 DATA EXPORT AND DELETION
User can export all personal data (goals, logs, scores, badges, messages)
as a JSON or PDF at any time.
Account deletion: data deleted within 30 days. Anonymized aggregate data
(used in global stats, not linked to user) retained.
When a user deletes their account while in a circle: their profile removed
from circle; their logs disappear from feed; challenge records show
"[Deleted User]" for their entries.


SECTION 16. SCORING AND GAMIFICATION LOGIC


SCORE 16.1 — DAILY PERFORMANCE SCORE (DPS)

Range: 0 to 100.
Update frequency: Real-time, updated on each log submission.

Calculation:
For each active GoalInstance for today:
  completion_fraction = actual_value / target_value (capped at 1.0 for
  over-achievement).
  For Binary goals: 0.0 (not done) or 1.0 (done).
  difficulty_weight = user-set difficulty (1, 2, or 3; default 1).

DPS = (sum of (completion_fraction × difficulty_weight) /
       sum of difficulty_weight) × 100

If no active goals: DPS = null (not 0; excluded from streak evaluation).

Edge cases:
- Paused goals excluded from calculation.
- Grace mode days: DPS = null (excluded).
- Proof-required goal not yet proven: completion_fraction = 0 until
  proof submitted.

Storage: Stored per user per day in daily_scores table. Also cached in
Redis for real-time reads.

SCORE 16.2 — CONSISTENCY SCORE (CS)

Range: 0 to 100.
Update frequency: Daily batch job (midnight).

Calculation:
CS = (count of days in last 30 days where DPS >= 80) / 30 × 100

Edge cases:
- Grace mode days excluded from denominator (30 becomes 29 or 28).
- Streak freeze days: counted as completed for this calculation.
- Days with null DPS (no active goals): excluded from denominator.

SCORE 16.3 — GROWTH SCORE (GS)

Range: 0 to 100.
Update frequency: Daily batch.

Calculation:
Pull DPS for last 60 days.
Compute linear regression trend line over these 60 data points.
Weight recent days more heavily (exponential decay: weight = 0.97^(days_ago)).
Extract slope of weighted trend line.
Normalize slope to 0-100 scale (flat = 50, improving = >50, declining = <50).
Also factor target value increases: if a user increased their goal target
(e.g., push-ups from 50 to 100) during the period, add a bonus scaling
factor to the slope (indicating deliberate progressive overload).

Storage: Requires 60 days of daily DPS history.

SCORE 16.4 — DISCIPLINE SCORE (DS)

Range: 0 to 100.
Update frequency: Daily batch.

Calculation (composite of four factors):
Factor A — On-time logging rate (weight 0.35):
  Percentage of logs submitted on the day the GoalInstance was due
  (not a late-edit). = (on-time logs / total logs) × 100

Factor B — Proof upload rate when required (weight 0.30):
  Percentage of proof-required goals that had proof uploaded.
  = (proof uploaded for required goals / required goals) × 100

Factor C — Late-edit rate (weight 0.20, inverse):
  Penalty for late edits. = (1 - (late_edit_logs / total_logs)) × 100

Factor D — Timeout acceptance rate (weight 0.15):
  Of timeout requests received, what fraction did the user accept
  (not override)? = (accepted timeouts / total timeouts received) × 100
  This rewards users who follow through on their own consent agreement.

DS = (A × 0.35) + (B × 0.30) + (C × 0.20) + (D × 0.15)

SCORE 16.5 — ACCOUNTABILITY SCORE (AS)

Range: 0 to 100.
Update frequency: Daily batch.

Calculation (composite):
Factor A — Nudges sent in last 30 days (weight 0.20):
  Scaled: 0 nudges = 0, 20+ nudges = 100.

Factor B — Timeouts initiated in last 30 days (weight 0.20):
  Scaled: 0 = 0, 10+ = 100.

Factor C — Screen share assistance sessions in last 30 days (weight 0.15):
  Scaled: 0 = 0, 5+ = 100.

Factor D — Challenge participation rate (weight 0.25):
  (challenges participated in / challenges proposed to them) × 100.

Factor E — Responsiveness to partner interventions (weight 0.20):
  Of timeout requests received (not overridden), response rate.
  Of nudges received, how often did the user log the nudged goal within
  2 hours of receiving the nudge.
  Average of these two sub-rates.

AS = weighted composite of A through E.

XP SYSTEM

Base XP per completed goal:
  Binary goal completed: 10 XP.
  Numeric goal: floor(10 × completion_fraction) XP.
  Time-based goal: floor(10 × min(actual_duration / target_duration, 1.0)) XP.

Bonus XP:
  Proof uploaded: +5 XP (regardless of whether proof is required).
  On-time logging (same day, not late-edit): +2 XP.

Streak multipliers (applied to base XP only, not bonuses):
  Days 1-6 of streak: 1.0x.
  Days 7-14: 1.5x.
  Days 15-29: 2.0x.
  Days 30+: 2.5x.

Challenge bonus XP:
  Challenge winner: 100 XP + (difficulty multiplier × 50).
  Challenge participation (regardless of outcome): 20 XP.
  Challenge completed with proof: +30 XP.

Social XP:
  Emoji reaction sent: 1 XP (capped at 5 XP/day from reactions).
  Nudge sent that results in partner logging within 2 hours: +3 XP.
  Gifting a grace day: +10 XP (generosity bonus).

Level Formula:
  Level = floor(sqrt(total_lifetime_xp / 100))
  Level 1: 100 XP, Level 2: 400 XP, Level 5: 2500 XP, Level 10: 10,000 XP.
  Level is cosmetic only (affects profile border tier display).
  XP never decreases.

STREAK LOGIC (detailed)

Current Streak: count of consecutive days where DPS >= 80, with minimum
2 active goals. Streak stored in gamification_profiles.current_streak.
Longest Streak: updated whenever current_streak > historical maximum.
Streak freeze: stored as count in gamification_profiles.streak_freeze_count.
Auto-applied: before streak reset runs at midnight, check if freeze count > 0;
if yes, decrement count, do not reset streak.
Grace mode: separate from streak logic. During grace, streak not evaluated.
Streak calculation runs server-side in midnight batch job per user timezone.

BADGE DEFINITIONS (Minimum Defined Set)

Milestone Badges:
  "Getting Started" — first goal logged.
  "Week Warrior" — first 7-day streak.
  "30 Strong" — first 30-day streak.
  "Century Club" — first 100-day streak.
  "Comeback Kid" — rebuilt a streak to 7+ days after it reset.

Achievement Badges:
  "Proof Pro" — uploaded proof for 50 goals.
  "Centurion" — logged 100 total activities.
  "1000 XP" — accumulated 1000 XP.
  "Perfect Week" — 7 consecutive days with DPS = 100.
  "Overachiever" — exceeded a numeric goal target 10 times.

Social Badges:
  "Nudge Master" — sent 50 nudges that resulted in partner completing.
  "Timeout Hero" — initiated 10 timeouts that partner accepted.
  "Circle Anchor" — maintained highest Accountability Score in circle
                    for 4 consecutive weeks.

Challenge Badges:
  "First Blood" — won first challenge.
  "Undefeated" — won 5 consecutive challenges.
  "Good Sport" — participated in 10 challenges regardless of outcome.

Consistency Badges:
  "Iron Discipline" — Discipline Score > 90 for 30 consecutive days.
  "Steady" — Consistency Score > 80 for 8 consecutive weeks.

ACHIEVEMENT QUESTS (Multi-step)

Example:
  "Fitness Foundation"
  Step 1/3: Log a fitness goal for 7 days. (+25 XP per step)
  Step 2/3: Log a fitness goal for 30 days. (+50 XP)
  Step 3/3: Log a fitness goal for 60 days. (+100 XP + "Iron Fitness" badge)

Achievement quests are defined in the database by admin. Progress tracked
against log history.

LEADERBOARD LOGIC

Circle Leaderboard updated daily at midnight after all score calculations.
Metrics available as leaderboard views:
  - Daily Performance Score (today)
  - Weekly XP (rolling 7 days)
  - Consistency Score (30-day)
  - Accountability Score (30-day)
  - Current Streak

Ranking: ordinal ranking per metric. Ties: shared rank.
Users can opt out of leaderboard visibility (their rank hidden from others
but they can still see their own relative position).
Global leaderboard: opt-in only. Uses only Consistency Score and Total XP
for anonymized ranking.

CIRCLE SCORE

Circle Score = average of all members' DPS for today.
Shown on circle overview. No impact on individual scores. Used for
team cohesion visibility and group achievement unlocks (future).


SECTION 17. NOTIFICATION SYSTEM


NOTIFICATION TYPES AND TRIGGERS

N-001 Partner Logged Activity
  Trigger: activity_log created event.
  Recipients: All active circle members except the logger.
  Content: "[Name] just completed [Goal Name]! 🎯"
  Delivery: Push notification + in-app toast on feed.
  Priority: Normal.
  Configurable: User can disable per-member or per-circle activity
  notifications.

N-002 Nudge Received
  Trigger: Nudge submitted via API.
  Recipient: Target user.
  Content: "[Name] is nudging you about [Goal Name]. You've got this!"
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: High.
  Configurable: Can be disabled per sender (blocking).

N-003 Focus Alert Received
  Trigger: Focus alert sent.
  Recipient: Target user.
  Content: "[Name]: You've spent [X] on [App]. Time for a break?"
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: High.

N-004 Timeout Warning
  Trigger: Timeout initiated.
  Recipient: Target user.
  Content: "[Name] set a [N]-min timeout on [App]. Starting in 5 sec."
  Delivery: Push notification + in-app foreground overlay with countdown.
  Priority: Critical (bypasses DND if possible on device).

N-005 Timeout Override Available
  Trigger: 5-minute cooldown elapsed after timeout started.
  Recipient: Target user.
  Content: "You can now override the [App] timeout if needed."
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: Normal.

N-006 Challenge Received
  Trigger: Challenge proposed and pending acceptance.
  Recipient: All invited participants.
  Content: "[Name] challenged you to [Condition]. Stakes: [Stake]. Accept?"
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: High.

N-007 Challenge Outcome
  Trigger: Challenge evaluated at deadline.
  Recipients: All participants.
  Content (winner): "You won the challenge! [Stake] is yours. 🏆"
  Content (loser): "[Name] won the challenge. [Stake] owed."
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: High.

N-008 Streak Milestone
  Trigger: Streak increments to a milestone (7, 14, 30, 60, 90, 100, etc.).
  Recipient: The user achieving the streak.
  Content: "Amazing! You hit a [N]-day streak! 🔥"
  Delivery: Push notification + in-app celebration overlay.
  Priority: Normal.

N-009 Badge Unlocked
  Trigger: Badge criteria met.
  Recipient: The user earning the badge.
  Content: "New badge unlocked: [Badge Name]! Tap to see."
  Delivery: Push notification + in-app badge reveal modal.
  Priority: Normal.

N-010 Daily Recap
  Trigger: Scheduled daily (user-configurable time, default 9 PM user timezone).
  Recipient: All active users.
  Content: "Today: [X/Y goals complete]. Circle: [Z%]. Streak: [N days]."
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: Normal.
  Configurable: Enable/disable, time preference.

N-011 Evening Reminder
  Trigger: Scheduled (configurable, default 7 PM) if any goal still pending.
  Recipient: User with incomplete goals.
  Content: "You still have [N] goal(s) to complete today. You can do it!"
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: Normal.
  Configurable: Enable/disable, time preference.

N-012 Circle Chat Message
  Trigger: New message in circle or DM thread.
  Recipient: All participants in the thread (except sender).
  Content: "[Name]: [First 50 chars of message]"
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: Normal.
  Configurable: Enable/disable per thread, mute per thread.

N-013 Emoji Reaction
  Trigger: Reaction added to user's log.
  Recipient: Log owner.
  Content: "[Name] reacted [emoji] to your [Goal Name] completion."
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: Low.

N-014 Incoming Call
  Trigger: Call initiated by circle member.
  Recipient: Called user(s).
  Content: "[Name] is calling you."
  Delivery: Push notification (CallKit on iOS, IncomingCall notification on
  Android).
  Priority: Critical.

N-015 Screen Share Request
  Trigger: Screen share request sent.
  Recipient: Requested user.
  Content: "[Name] is requesting to see your screen. Accept?"
  Delivery: Push notification + in-app modal with Accept/Decline.
  Priority: High.

N-016 Grace Mode (Own / Partner)
  Trigger: Grace mode activated.
  Recipients: Circle members.
  Content: "[Name] has activated Grace Mode. Give them some support! 💙"
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: Low.

N-017 Leaderboard Rank Change
  Trigger: Daily batch detects significant rank change (moved up or down 2+).
  Recipient: User who changed rank.
  Content: "You moved to rank [N] in your circle's [Metric] leaderboard!"
  Delivery: Push notification.
  Priority: Low.

NOTIFICATION DELIVERY ARCHITECTURE

Push notification service: Firebase Cloud Messaging (Android + cross-platform),
Apple Push Notification Service (iOS native calls, CallKit).
Notification preferences stored per user per type. Notification service reads
preferences before dispatching.
Notification queue: async processing via message queue (Redis / SQS).
Failed deliveries: retry up to 3 times with exponential backoff; then log
as failed.
Notification history: stored in notifications table (id, user_id, type,
content, sent_at, read_at, action_taken_at) for in-app notification center.


SECTION 18. ANALYTICS AND REPORTING


IN-APP ANALYTICS (User-Facing)

Per User:
  Daily Performance Score chart (bar chart, last 30 days, selectable range).
  Consistency Score trend (line chart, last 12 weeks).
  Growth Score trend (line chart, last 60 days).
  Goal completion heatmap (calendar view, 12-month rolling).
  Best and worst performing goals by completion rate.
  Time-of-day logging pattern (histogram — when do they log most?).
  Streak calendar (GitHub-style heatmap).
  XP accumulation over time (line chart).
  Score breakdown (all 5 scores with explanations).
  Badge collection (earned and locked).
  Challenge win/loss record.

Per Circle:
  Circle Score trend (line chart, last 30 days).
  Member comparison charts (all 5 scores per member, bar charts).
  Top performer of the week (auto-generated).
  Challenge history.
  Total goals logged by circle (aggregate).

ADMIN ANALYTICS (Internal)

Daily Active Users (DAU) and Monthly Active Users (MAU).
Retention: D1, D7, D30, D90 cohort retention.
Circle creation rate, member join rate.
Feature usage: percentage of active users using screen time monitoring,
timeout, screen share, challenges, templates.
Timeout effectiveness: of users who received a timeout, how many completed
the nudged goal on the same day?
Proof upload rate.
Challenge completion and dispute rates.
Average goals per user, average circle size.
Revenue: subscription upgrades, feature utilization by plan tier.
Churn indicators: users with DPS drop for 7+ consecutive days.

REPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE

Analytics events tracked server-side on every significant user action
(event name, user_id, circle_id, timestamp, metadata JSON).
Analytics database: separate from operational DB (read replicas or ETL to
data warehouse — BigQuery or Redshift).
Admin dashboards: internal BI tool (Metabase or Superset on internal network).
User-facing charts: generated client-side from score history API endpoints;
no separate chart service required in MVP.


SECTION 19. DATA MODELS


ENTITY DEFINITIONS

User: A registered individual on the platform. Has one profile.
Circle: A named group of users. The fundamental organizational unit.
CircleMember: A join record linking a User to a Circle with role and status.
ConsentRecord: An immutable record of a user granting or revoking a permission.
Goal: A user's personally defined activity to track. Belongs to user and circle.
GoalMilestone: A sub-task or milestone step within a goal.
GoalTemplate: An admin-defined template pack containing goal configurations.
GoalInstance: A daily generated instance of a goal for a specific date.
ActivityLog: A user's completion record for a GoalInstance.
MediaObject: A proof file (photo, video, screenshot, document).
LogReaction: An emoji reaction on an ActivityLog.
NudgeLog: A record of a nudge sent from one user to another.
ScreenTimeSnapshot: Per-app usage data for a user on a given day.
InterventionLog: A record of a focus alert or timeout event.
Message: A chat message in a circle or DM thread.
ChatThread: A conversation context (circle group or user pair).
CallSession: Metadata record for a voice/video call.
ScreenShareSession: Metadata record for a screen share session.
GamificationProfile: Per-user gamification state (XP, streak, badges).
DailyScore: A computed snapshot of all 5 scores for a user on a given day.
LeaderboardSnapshot: A daily computed ranking of circle members per metric.
Badge: A badge definition (type, criteria, icon, description).
UserBadge: A user's earned badge instance.
Achievement: A multi-step quest definition.
UserAchievement: Progress record linking a user to an achievement.
Challenge: A structured competition between circle members.
ChallengeParticipant: A user's participation record in a challenge.
DisputeTicket: A dispute record linked to a challenge outcome.
GracePeriod: A record of a grace mode activation or grace day gift.
StreakFreeze: A record of a streak freeze item (earned, used).
Notification: A delivered notification record per user.
UserPreference: User settings (notification prefs, visibility prefs, etc.).
SubscriptionRecord: User plan and billing history.
DataExportRequest: Log of data export requests for compliance.
AuditLog: System-level audit trail for sensitive operations (consent changes,
         account deletions, admin actions).


SECTION 20. DATABASE SCHEMA


-- USERS AND AUTH

users (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  name                  VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  email                 VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE,
  phone                 VARCHAR(30) UNIQUE,
  password_hash         VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  avatar_url            VARCHAR(500),
  bio                   VARCHAR(300),
  timezone              VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'UTC',
  plan                  VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'free',
  account_status        VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'active',
  age_verified_at       TIMESTAMP,
  parental_consent_at   TIMESTAMP,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  last_active_at        TIMESTAMP,
  deleted_at            TIMESTAMP
);

auth_tokens (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  token_hash            VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
  token_type            VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'refresh' | 'reset_password'
  device_id             VARCHAR(255),
  expires_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
  used_at               TIMESTAMP,
  revoked_at            TIMESTAMP,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- CIRCLES AND MEMBERSHIP

circles (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  name                  VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  description           VARCHAR(300),
  owner_id              UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  invite_code           VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
  invite_link_token     VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
  invite_expires_at     TIMESTAMP,
  privacy_level         VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'private',
  timeout_enabled       BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  timeout_permission_type VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'mutual',
  leaderboard_visibility VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'all_members',
  max_stake_type        VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'points_only',
  max_daily_timeouts_per_member INTEGER DEFAULT 5,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  disbanded_at          TIMESTAMP
);

circle_members (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  role                  VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'member',
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'active',
  joined_at             TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  left_at               TIMESTAMP,
  removed_at            TIMESTAMP,
  removed_by            UUID REFERENCES users(id),
  UNIQUE(circle_id, user_id)
);

consent_records (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  feature               VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  granted_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  revoked_at            TIMESTAMP,
  device_id             VARCHAR(255),
  ip_address            INET
);

-- GOALS

goals (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  name                  VARCHAR(200) NOT NULL,
  goal_type             VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'binary'|'numeric'|'time'|'custom'
  target_value          NUMERIC(10,2),
  target_unit           VARCHAR(50),
  schedule_type         VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL, -- 'daily'|'specific_days'|'weekly_freq'|'custom_range'
  schedule_days         INTEGER[], -- 0=Sun,1=Mon,...,6=Sat
  schedule_weekly_freq  INTEGER,
  schedule_start_date   DATE,
  schedule_end_date     DATE,
  category              VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'Custom',
  category_emoji        VARCHAR(10),
  difficulty_weight     INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 1 CHECK (difficulty_weight BETWEEN 1 AND 3),
  require_proof         BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
  is_sensitive          BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE, -- hidden from feed
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'active',
  template_source_id    UUID REFERENCES goal_templates(id),
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at            TIMESTAMP,
  paused_at             TIMESTAMP,
  archived_at           TIMESTAMP,
  deleted_at            TIMESTAMP
);

goal_milestones (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  goal_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES goals(id),
  label                 VARCHAR(200) NOT NULL,
  target_value          NUMERIC(10,2),
  order_index           INTEGER NOT NULL,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

goal_templates (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  name                  VARCHAR(200) NOT NULL,
  description           VARCHAR(500),
  category              VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  gender_tag            VARCHAR(30), -- nullable; 'all'|'male'|'female'
  goals_json            JSONB NOT NULL, -- array of goal configurations
  is_active             BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  locale                VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'en',
  version               INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 1,
  created_by_admin      UUID,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at            TIMESTAMP
);

goal_instances (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  goal_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES goals(id),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  date                  DATE NOT NULL,
  target_value          NUMERIC(10,2),
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending',
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at            TIMESTAMP,
  UNIQUE(goal_id, date)
);

-- ACTIVITY LOGGING

activity_logs (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  client_uuid           UUID NOT NULL UNIQUE, -- client-side deduplication key
  goal_instance_id      UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES goal_instances(id),
  goal_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES goals(id),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  date                  DATE NOT NULL,
  target_value          NUMERIC(10,2),
  actual_value          NUMERIC(10,2),
  completion_fraction   NUMERIC(5,4) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'completed',
  proof_url             VARCHAR(500),
  proof_type            VARCHAR(20),
  notes                 VARCHAR(500),
  logged_at             TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  edited_at             TIMESTAMP,
  is_late_edit          BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
  xp_awarded            INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0
);

media_objects (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  owner_user_id         UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  associated_log_id     UUID REFERENCES activity_logs(id),
  storage_key           VARCHAR(500) NOT NULL,
  cdn_url               VARCHAR(500) NOT NULL,
  file_type             VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  file_size_bytes       BIGINT NOT NULL,
  duration_seconds      INTEGER,
  upload_status         VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending',
  uploaded_at           TIMESTAMP,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

log_reactions (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  log_id                UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES activity_logs(id),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  emoji                 VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  UNIQUE(log_id, user_id, emoji)
);

nudge_logs (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  sender_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  recipient_id          UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  goal_id               UUID REFERENCES goals(id),
  goal_instance_id      UUID REFERENCES goal_instances(id),
  message               VARCHAR(200),
  result                VARCHAR(30), -- 'logged_within_2h'|'not_logged'|'pending'
  sent_at               TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- DIGITAL WELLBEING

screen_time_snapshots (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  date                  DATE NOT NULL,
  app_package           VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  app_display_name      VARCHAR(255),
  duration_seconds      INTEGER NOT NULL,
  open_count            INTEGER,
  is_hidden             BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
  platform              VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'ios'|'android'
  synced_at             TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  UNIQUE(user_id, date, app_package)
);

app_thresholds (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  app_package           VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  threshold_seconds     INTEGER NOT NULL,
  alert_enabled         BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  UNIQUE(user_id, circle_id, app_package)
);

intervention_logs (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  initiator_id          UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  target_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  intervention_type     VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'alert'|'timeout'
  app_package           VARCHAR(255),
  duration_seconds      INTEGER,
  status                VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL, -- 'sent'|'accepted'|'overridden'|'deferred'
  override_at           TIMESTAMP,
  override_reason       VARCHAR(200),
  initiated_at          TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  expires_at            TIMESTAMP
);

-- COMMUNICATION

chat_threads (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  thread_type           VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'group'|'direct'
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

chat_thread_participants (
  thread_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES chat_threads(id),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  joined_at             TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  last_read_at          TIMESTAMP,
  PRIMARY KEY (thread_id, user_id)
);

messages (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  thread_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES chat_threads(id),
  sender_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  content               TEXT,
  media_url             VARCHAR(500),
  media_type            VARCHAR(30),
  is_deleted            BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
  sent_at               TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  deleted_at            TIMESTAMP
);

call_sessions (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  call_type             VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'voice'|'video'
  initiated_by          UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  participants          UUID[],
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'ringing'|'active'|'ended'|'missed'
  started_at            TIMESTAMP,
  ended_at              TIMESTAMP,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

screen_share_sessions (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  requester_id          UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  sharer_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  consent_given_at      TIMESTAMP,
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'requested'|'active'|'ended'|'declined'
  started_at            TIMESTAMP,
  ended_at              TIMESTAMP,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- CHALLENGES

challenges (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  proposer_id           UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  title                 VARCHAR(200) NOT NULL,
  condition_description TEXT NOT NULL,
  condition_type        VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL, -- 'streak'|'total_completions'|'first_to_achieve'|'highest_rate'
  condition_goal_id     UUID REFERENCES goals(id), -- if linked to existing goal
  condition_target      NUMERIC(10,2),
  stake_type            VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL, -- 'points'|'iou'|'forfeit'
  stake_description     VARCHAR(500),
  stake_points          INTEGER,
  proof_required        BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
  tie_break_rule        VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'extend_7_days',
  deadline              TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending',
  winner_id             UUID REFERENCES users(id),
  outcome_type          VARCHAR(30), -- 'clear_winner'|'tie'|'cancelled'
  resolved_at           TIMESTAMP,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

challenge_participants (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  challenge_id          UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES challenges(id),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending', -- 'pending'|'accepted'|'declined'|'withdrawn'
  accepted_at           TIMESTAMP,
  withdrawn_at          TIMESTAMP,
  UNIQUE(challenge_id, user_id)
);

dispute_tickets (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  challenge_id          UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES challenges(id),
  raised_by             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  description           TEXT NOT NULL,
  evidence_urls         VARCHAR(500)[],
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'open',
  admin_notes           TEXT,
  resolved_by           UUID REFERENCES users(id),
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  resolved_at           TIMESTAMP
);

-- GAMIFICATION

gamification_profiles (
  user_id               UUID PRIMARY KEY REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  total_xp              INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  current_level         INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  current_streak        INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  longest_streak        INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  streak_freeze_count   INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  grace_days_used_this_month INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  grace_days_gifted_received INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  grace_reset_month     INTEGER, -- month number when grace days were last reset
  last_streak_update_date DATE,
  updated_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  PRIMARY KEY (user_id, circle_id)
);

daily_scores (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  date                  DATE NOT NULL,
  daily_performance_score NUMERIC(5,2),
  consistency_score     NUMERIC(5,2),
  growth_score          NUMERIC(5,2),
  discipline_score      NUMERIC(5,2),
  accountability_score  NUMERIC(5,2),
  goals_active          INTEGER,
  goals_completed       INTEGER,
  xp_earned_today       INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  computed_at           TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  UNIQUE(user_id, circle_id, date)
);

badges (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  name                  VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
  description           VARCHAR(300) NOT NULL,
  category              VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL,
  icon_url              VARCHAR(500),
  criteria_type         VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  criteria_value        JSONB,
  is_active             BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

user_badges (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  badge_id              UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES badges(id),
  earned_at             TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  UNIQUE(user_id, badge_id)
);

achievements (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  name                  VARCHAR(200) NOT NULL,
  description           VARCHAR(500) NOT NULL,
  steps_json            JSONB NOT NULL,
  reward_xp             INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  reward_badge_id       UUID REFERENCES badges(id),
  is_active             BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE
);

user_achievements (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  achievement_id        UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES achievements(id),
  current_step          INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
  completed_at          TIMESTAMP,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at            TIMESTAMP,
  UNIQUE(user_id, achievement_id)
);

leaderboard_snapshots (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  date                  DATE NOT NULL,
  metric                VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  rankings_json         JSONB NOT NULL, -- [{user_id, rank, value}]
  computed_at           TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  UNIQUE(circle_id, date, metric)
);

grace_periods (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  circle_id             UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES circles(id),
  duration_days         INTEGER NOT NULL,
  gifted_by             UUID REFERENCES users(id), -- if gifted
  activated_at          TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  ends_at               TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
  deactivated_at        TIMESTAMP
);

-- NOTIFICATIONS AND PREFERENCES

notifications (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  type                  VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  title                 VARCHAR(200) NOT NULL,
  body                  VARCHAR(500) NOT NULL,
  metadata              JSONB,
  is_read               BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
  sent_at               TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  read_at               TIMESTAMP,
  action_taken_at       TIMESTAMP
);

user_preferences (
  user_id               UUID PRIMARY KEY REFERENCES users(id),
  notify_partner_log    BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_nudge          BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_focus_alert    BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_timeout        BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_challenge      BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_daily_recap    BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_daily_recap_time TIME NOT NULL DEFAULT '21:00:00',
  notify_evening_reminder BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_evening_reminder_time TIME NOT NULL DEFAULT '19:00:00',
  notify_badge          BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_streak         BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  notify_chat           BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  leaderboard_visible   BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT TRUE,
  scores_visible        JSONB, -- per-score visibility config
  dark_mode             VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'system',
  nudge_blocked_users   UUID[], -- user IDs whose nudges are blocked
  updated_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- SUBSCRIPTIONS AND COMPLIANCE

subscription_records (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  plan                  VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
  started_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
  ends_at               TIMESTAMP,
  payment_provider      VARCHAR(50),
  external_subscription_id VARCHAR(255),
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

audit_logs (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  actor_id              UUID, -- null for system actions
  target_user_id        UUID,
  action                VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  resource_type         VARCHAR(50),
  resource_id           UUID,
  metadata              JSONB,
  ip_address            INET,
  created_at            TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW()
);

data_export_requests (
  id                    UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id               UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id),
  status                VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending',
  download_url          VARCHAR(500),
  expires_at            TIMESTAMP,
  requested_at          TIMESTAMP NOT NULL DEFAULT NOW(),
  completed_at          TIMESTAMP
);

-- INDEXES (Critical for performance)

CREATE INDEX idx_goal_instances_user_date ON goal_instances(user_id, date);
CREATE INDEX idx_goal_instances_circle_date ON goal_instances(circle_id, date);
CREATE INDEX idx_activity_logs_user_date ON activity_logs(user_id, date);
CREATE INDEX idx_activity_logs_circle_date ON activity_logs(circle_id, date);
CREATE INDEX idx_screen_time_user_date ON screen_time_snapshots(user_id, date);
CREATE INDEX idx_daily_scores_user_date ON daily_scores(user_id, date DESC);
CREATE INDEX idx_messages_thread_sent ON messages(thread_id, sent_at DESC);
CREATE INDEX idx_notifications_user_read ON notifications(user_id, is_read, sent_at DESC);
CREATE INDEX idx_nudge_logs_sender_recipient ON nudge_logs(sender_id, recipient_id, sent_at);
CREATE INDEX idx_intervention_logs_target ON intervention_logs(target_id, initiated_at DESC);



SECTION 21. API REQUIREMENTS


API CONVENTIONS

Base URL: https://api.growcircle.app/v1
Authentication: Bearer token (JWT) in Authorization header.
Content-Type: application/json for all requests.
Date format: ISO 8601 (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ).
Pagination: cursor-based for feeds and log histories.
Error format: { "error": { "code": "ERROR_CODE", "message": "human message",
               "field": "optional field name for validation errors" } }
Rate limits: per endpoint, per user, via Upstash/Redis.
API versioning: URL-based (/v1, /v2). Breaking changes always on a new version.

AUTHENTICATION ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/auth/register
  Body: { name, email?, phone?, password }
  Response 201: { user, access_token, refresh_token }
  Errors: 409 DUPLICATE_CREDENTIAL, 400 VALIDATION_ERROR

POST /v1/auth/login
  Body: { credential, password }
  Response 200: { user, access_token, refresh_token }
  Errors: 401 INVALID_CREDENTIALS, 429 RATE_LIMITED

POST /v1/auth/refresh
  Body: { refresh_token }
  Response 200: { access_token, refresh_token }
  Errors: 401 INVALID_OR_EXPIRED_REFRESH_TOKEN

POST /v1/auth/logout
  Body: { refresh_token }
  Response 200: { success: true }

POST /v1/auth/forgot-password
  Body: { email? | phone? }
  Response 200: { message: "Reset sent if account exists" }
  Note: Response is always 200 to prevent account enumeration.

POST /v1/auth/reset-password
  Body: { token, new_password }
  Response 200: { success: true }

POST /v1/auth/verify-otp
  Body: { credential, otp_code }
  Response 200: { success: true }

DELETE /v1/auth/account
  Auth required.
  Body: { password, reason? }
  Response 202: { scheduled_deletion_at }

PROFILE ENDPOINTS

GET /v1/users/me
  Response 200: full user profile + preferences.

PUT /v1/users/me
  Body: { name?, bio?, timezone?, avatar? (multipart) }
  Response 200: updated user profile.

GET /v1/users/:user_id/profile
  Auth: must be in same circle as target.
  Response 200: public profile fields, gamification summary.

GET /v1/users/me/preferences
  Response 200: UserPreference object.

PUT /v1/users/me/preferences
  Body: partial UserPreference fields.
  Response 200: updated preferences.

CIRCLE ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/circles
  Body: { name, description?, permissions config }
  Response 201: circle object with invite_code and invite_link.

GET /v1/circles
  Response 200: array of user's circles with member counts and own role.

GET /v1/circles/:circle_id
  Auth: must be circle member.
  Response 200: circle object with members list.

PUT /v1/circles/:circle_id
  Auth: circle owner only.
  Body: { name?, description?, permission settings }
  Response 200: updated circle.

DELETE /v1/circles/:circle_id
  Auth: circle owner only.
  Response 202: { disbanded_at, chat_export_url }

POST /v1/circles/:circle_id/invite/regenerate
  Auth: circle owner only.
  Response 200: { invite_code, invite_link_token, expires_at }

POST /v1/circles/join
  Auth required.
  Body: { code? | token? }
  Response 200: circle object + onboarding next steps.

DELETE /v1/circles/:circle_id/members/:user_id
  Auth: circle owner only.
  Response 200: { success: true }

PUT /v1/circles/:circle_id/members/:user_id/role
  Auth: circle owner only.
  Body: { role: 'owner' }
  Response 200: updated member record.

DELETE /v1/circles/:circle_id/members/me
  Auth: circle member (not owner without transfer).
  Response 200: { success: true }

GET /v1/circles/:circle_id/members
  Auth: circle member.
  Response 200: array of member objects with roles, consent status.

POST /v1/circles/:circle_id/consent
  Auth: circle member.
  Body: { feature, granted: true|false }
  Response 200: consent_record.

GOAL ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/goals
  Body: full goal configuration including circle_id.
  Response 201: goal object.

GET /v1/goals?circle_id=&status=active
  Response 200: paginated goal array.

GET /v1/goals/:goal_id
  Auth: owner or circle member (if not sensitive).
  Response 200: goal with completion stats and recent logs.

PUT /v1/goals/:goal_id
  Auth: goal owner.
  Body: partial goal fields.
  Response 200: updated goal.

DELETE /v1/goals/:goal_id
  Auth: goal owner.
  Response 200: { deleted_at }

POST /v1/goals/:goal_id/pause
  Auth: goal owner.
  Response 200: { paused_at }

POST /v1/goals/:goal_id/archive
  Auth: goal owner.
  Response 200: { archived_at }

POST /v1/goals/:goal_id/clone
  Auth: goal owner.
  Body: { target_circle_id? }
  Response 201: new goal object.

GET /v1/goal-instances?date=YYYY-MM-DD&circle_id=
  Auth required.
  Response 200: array of GoalInstances for the date (own goals only).

GET /v1/circles/:circle_id/goal-instances?date=
  Auth: circle member.
  Response 200: all members' GoalInstances for the date (summary only for
  partners; full detail for own).

GET /v1/templates
  Query: category?, search?, locale?
  Response 200: paginated template list.

GET /v1/templates/:template_id
  Response 200: template with full goals_json preview.

POST /v1/goals/import-template
  Body: { template_id, circle_id }
  Response 201: { imported_goals: [goal objects], duplicates_warned: [names] }

LOGGING ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/logs
  Body: { client_uuid, goal_instance_id, actual_value?, completion_fraction?,
          status, notes?, proof? (after pre-signed upload) }
  Response 201: activity_log object + xp_awarded.

PUT /v1/logs/:log_id
  Auth: log owner, within 24h (else flag).
  Body: partial log fields.
  Response 200: updated log.

GET /v1/logs/:log_id
  Auth: log owner or circle member.
  Response 200: log with signed proof URL.

GET /v1/users/me/logs?date_from=&date_to=&circle_id=
  Response 200: paginated log history.

POST /v1/logs/:log_id/reactions
  Body: { emoji }
  Response 201: reaction object.

DELETE /v1/logs/:log_id/reactions/:reaction_id
  Auth: reaction owner.
  Response 200: { success: true }

POST /v1/media/upload-url
  Auth required.
  Body: { file_type, file_size_bytes, associated_log_id? }
  Response 200: { upload_url, media_id, expires_at }

POST /v1/media/:media_id/confirm
  Auth required.
  Response 200: { cdn_url }

FEED ENDPOINTS

GET /v1/circles/:circle_id/feed?date=
  Auth: circle member.
  Response 200: { members: [{ user, today_summary, goal_instances_with_logs }] }

GET /v1/circles/:circle_id/feed/realtime
  WebSocket upgrade.
  Auth: token query parameter.
  Messages: { event: 'log_created'|'reaction_added'|'nudge_sent', payload }

NUDGE ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/nudges
  Body: { recipient_id, circle_id, goal_id?, goal_instance_id?, message? }
  Response 201: nudge_log object.
  Errors: 429 NUDGE_LIMIT_EXCEEDED, 403 NUDGE_BLOCKED.

GET /v1/nudges?sent_by=me&circle_id=
  Response 200: paginated nudge log.

SCREEN TIME ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/screen-time/sync
  Auth required.
  Body: { date, snapshots: [{ app_package, app_display_name, duration_seconds,
          open_count }], platform }
  Response 200: { synced_count }

GET /v1/screen-time?user_id=&date=
  Auth: requester must be in same circle as user_id; user must have
  granted screen_time consent.
  Response 200: { date, total_seconds, apps: [...], hidden_count }

PUT /v1/screen-time/hidden-apps
  Auth required.
  Body: { app_packages: [] }
  Response 200: { hidden_apps: [] }

PUT /v1/app-thresholds
  Body: { circle_id, app_package, threshold_seconds }
  Response 200: threshold object.

INTERVENTION ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/interventions
  Body: { target_id, circle_id, type: 'alert'|'timeout', app_package?,
          duration_seconds? }
  Response 201: intervention_log object.
  Errors: 403 CONSENT_NOT_GRANTED, 403 PERMISSION_NOT_ENABLED,
          429 DAILY_TIMEOUT_LIMIT_EXCEEDED.

POST /v1/interventions/:intervention_id/override
  Auth: target user.
  Body: { reason? }
  Response 200: { overridden_at }
  Errors: 429 COOLDOWN_ACTIVE (with seconds_remaining).

GET /v1/interventions?circle_id=&date_from=&date_to=
  Auth: circle member.
  Response 200: paginated intervention log.

CHALLENGE ENDPOINTS

POST /v1/challenges
  Body: full challenge definition + participants array.
  Response 201: challenge object.

GET /v1/challenges?circle_id=&status=
  Auth: circle member.
  Response 200: paginated challenges.

GET /v1/challenges/:challenge_id
  Auth: challenge participant or circle member.
  Response 200: challenge with participant progress.

POST /v1/challenges/:challenge_id/respond
  Auth: invited participant.
  Body: { status: 'accepted'|'declined' }
  Response 200: updated challenge_participant.

POST /v1/challenges/:challenge_id/withdraw
  Auth: accepted participant.
  Response 200: { withdrawn_at, auto_loss: true }

POST /v1/challenges/:challenge_id/dispute
  Auth: challenge participant.
  Body: { description, evidence_urls? }
  Response 201: dispute_ticket.

GAMIFICATION ENDPOINTS

GET /v1/users/me/gamification?circle_id=
  Response 200: full gamification profile with XP, level, streak, badges.

GET /v1/circles/:circle_id/leaderboard?metric=&date=
  Auth: circle member (opt-out users excluded from results).
  Response 200: { metric, date, rankings: [{ rank, user_summary, value }] }

GET /v1/users/me/badges
  Response 200: { earned: [], locked: [] (locked show name and criteria only) }

GET /v1/users/me/achievements?circle_id=
  Response 200: array of achievements with progress.

GET /v1/users/me/scores?circle_id=&date_from=&date_to=
  Response 200: paginated daily_scores array.

POST /v1/grace-mode/activate
  Body: { circle_id, duration_days }
  Response 201: grace_period object.
  Errors: 400 NO_GRACE_DAYS_REMAINING.

POST /v1/grace-mode/gift
  Body: { recipient_id, circle_id }
  Response 201: grace_day_gift record.

COMMUNICATION ENDPOINTS

GET /v1/circles/:circle_id/threads
  Response 200: list of chat threads.

GET /v1/threads/:thread_id/messages?before_cursor=
  Auth: thread participant.
  Response 200: paginated messages (newest first).

POST /v1/threads/:thread_id/messages
  Body: { content?, media_url? }
  Response 201: message object.

DELETE /v1/messages/:message_id
  Auth: message sender.
  Response 200: { deleted_at }

POST /v1/calls
  Body: { circle_id, participants, call_type }
  Response 201: call_session object with WebRTC signaling info.

POST /v1/calls/:call_id/end
  Auth: any participant.
  Response 200: { ended_at }

POST /v1/screen-shares/request
  Body: { sharer_id, circle_id }
  Response 201: screen_share_session with request status.

POST /v1/screen-shares/:session_id/respond
  Auth: sharer.
  Body: { accepted: true|false }
  Response 200: updated session.

NOTIFICATION ENDPOINTS

GET /v1/notifications?page=&per_page=
  Response 200: paginated notifications.

PUT /v1/notifications/read
  Body: { notification_ids: [] | 'all' }
  Response 200: { updated_count }

ADMIN ENDPOINTS (separate admin API, admin auth only)

GET /admin/users — search, filter, paginate users.
GET /admin/users/:id — user detail with circles, logs.
PUT /admin/users/:id/status — disable/enable/delete user.
GET /admin/circles — list all circles.
DELETE /admin/circles/:id — disband circle.
GET /admin/templates — template library management.
POST /admin/templates — create template.
PUT /admin/templates/:id — update template.
GET /admin/disputes — list open disputes.
PUT /admin/disputes/:id/resolve — resolve dispute with ruling.
GET /admin/analytics/dau — daily active users.
GET /admin/analytics/retention — cohort retention.
GET /admin/analytics/feature-usage — per-feature metrics.
POST /admin/notifications/broadcast — push global notification.


SECTION 22. BACKEND ARCHITECTURE


ARCHITECTURE OVERVIEW

Pattern: Microservices with an event-driven backbone.
All services communicate primarily via a message queue (event bus) for
asynchronous operations (score calculation, notification delivery).
Synchronous communication between services via gRPC or internal REST
where low latency is required (e.g., auth validation).
Single API Gateway receives all client requests, handles auth middleware,
and routes to appropriate services.

MICROSERVICES (8 core services)

1. Auth Service
   Responsibilities: Registration, login, token management, password reset,
   OTP delivery.
   External dependencies: SendGrid (email), Twilio (SMS).
   DB: users, auth_tokens tables.
   Storage: Redis for OTP codes (TTL 10 min), refresh token metadata.

2. Circle Service
   Responsibilities: Circle CRUD, membership management, invite token
   generation and validation, consent record management.
   DB: circles, circle_members, consent_records tables.

3. Goal Service
   Responsibilities: Goal CRUD, template management, GoalInstance generation.
   Contains: Instance Generator job (cron, runs per user timezone at midnight).
   DB: goals, goal_milestones, goal_templates, goal_instances tables.

4. Logging Service
   Responsibilities: Activity log CRUD, proof media coordination, reaction
   management, offline sync deduplication.
   Events emitted: log_created (to gamification engine + notification
   service + feed service).
   DB: activity_logs, media_objects, log_reactions, nudge_logs tables.

5. Gamification Engine
   Responsibilities: XP calculation, streak management, badge awarding,
   score computation (batch and real-time DPS), leaderboard computation,
   achievement progress tracking.
   Pattern: Listens on log_created events for real-time DPS updates.
   Runs nightly batch jobs for Consistency, Growth, Discipline, Accountability
   scores.
   DB: gamification_profiles, daily_scores, user_badges, user_achievements,
   leaderboard_snapshots tables.

6. Notification Service
   Responsibilities: All push notification delivery, in-app notification
   storage, preference enforcement, delivery retry.
   External dependencies: FCM (Android), APNs (iOS).
   Pattern: Listens on events from all other services.
   DB: notifications table.
   Storage: Redis queue for notification jobs.

7. Intervention Service
   Responsibilities: Focus alert and timeout request management, device-level
   lock coordination, intervention logging, rate limit enforcement.
   Pattern: Uses push notifications with high-priority flag to device;
   device-side SDK handles actual app locking.
   DB: screen_time_snapshots, app_thresholds, intervention_logs tables.

8. Communication Service
   Responsibilities: Chat message delivery, call session management
   (WebRTC signaling), screen share session management.
   External dependencies: Twilio or Agora for WebRTC STUN/TURN servers.
   DB: chat_threads, messages, call_sessions, screen_share_sessions tables.

SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE

API Gateway: Kong or custom Express/Fastify gateway. Handles JWT validation,
rate limiting, request routing, and response logging.

Event Bus: Apache Kafka or AWS SQS/SNS. Topics: log.created, score.updated,
badge.unlocked, timeout.initiated, challenge.resolved.

WebSocket Gateway: Socket.io or native WebSocket server, sharded by circle_id
(consistent hashing). Authenticates via JWT query param on upgrade. Manages
per-circle broadcast channels.

Job Scheduler: BullMQ (Redis-backed) or cron-based service. Jobs:
  - goal_instance_generator: daily per user timezone.
  - streak_updater: daily per user timezone at end-of-day.
  - score_batch: nightly per circle.
  - leaderboard_updater: nightly.
  - grace_period_reset: 1st of each month.
  - screen_time_purge: weekly (deletes raw data > 30 days).

Background Workers: separate worker processes for media validation, data
export generation, and analytics event processing.

INFRASTRUCTURE

Cloud provider: AWS (primary) or GCP.
Compute: ECS (Docker containers) or Kubernetes.
Database: Amazon RDS PostgreSQL (primary) with read replicas.
Cache: Amazon ElastiCache (Redis) for sessions, streak cache, leaderboard,
feed summaries.
Object storage: Amazon S3 with CloudFront CDN.
Message queue: Amazon SQS (simple) or Kafka (at scale).
Push notifications: Firebase Admin SDK (server-side FCM + APNs via FCM).
Monitoring: Datadog or CloudWatch for metrics, Sentry for error tracking.
CI/CD: GitHub Actions → ECR → ECS deployment with blue-green.
Secrets management: AWS Secrets Manager.


SECTION 23. FRONTEND ARCHITECTURE


FRAMEWORK

Cross-platform mobile: React Native with TypeScript.
Navigation: React Navigation v6 (bottom tab navigator + stack navigators
per tab).
State management: Zustand (lightweight, per-feature stores) + React Query
(server state caching and synchronization).
Real-time: Socket.io-client for WebSocket connection (circle channel
subscription).
Offline storage: MMKV or WatermelonDB for offline log queue and local
caching of goal data.

NATIVE MODULES (require custom native code)

Screen Time Data Collection:
  Android: Native module wrapping Android UsageStatsManager.
  iOS: Family Controls / Screen Time framework native extension.
  Interface: JS callable async function returning per-app usage array.

App Locking (Timeout enforcement):
  Android: Accessibility Service module that can close foreground apps
  or switch to lock screen on timeout command.
  iOS: Family Controls Screen Time API with com.apple.developer.family-
  controls entitlement (requires Apple approval).
  Fallback: Full-screen overlay view rendered by the app when native
  locking is unavailable.

Background Screen Time Sync:
  iOS: Background App Refresh task.
  Android: WorkManager periodic task.
  Batches daily data, uploads once per day.

Screen Sharing:
  iOS: ReplayKit native wrapper.
  Android: MediaProjection API native wrapper.
  Streams via WebRTC data channel.

COMPONENT ARCHITECTURE

Design system: Custom design tokens (colors, typography, spacing, shadows)
in a theme provider. Dark mode via ThemeContext. All components accept theme
via hook.

Core components:
  GoalCard, GoalLogModal, TimerWidget, MediaUploader, ProgressRing,
  PartnerCard, FeedCard, ProofViewer, StreakCounter, ScoreCard,
  BadgeDisplay, LeaderboardRow, ChallengeCard, NudgeButton,
  TimeoutModal, ChatBubble, CallOverlay, CircleSwitcher,
  EmptyState, SkeletonLoader, OfflineIndicator, UploadProgressBar.

PERFORMANCE

React Query caching: feed data cached for 30 seconds, goal data for 5
minutes, leaderboard for 5 minutes.
Virtualized lists for all scrollable feeds (FlatList with keyExtractor
and getItemLayout).
Image loading: FastImage library with CDN-signed URL caching.
WebSocket reconnection: exponential backoff, max 30-second retry interval.

STATE STORES (Zustand)

authStore: user, token, logout action.
circleStore: activeCircleId, circles list, switch action.
goalsStore: goals for active circle, today's instances, offline queue.
feedStore: feed data, last updated, WebSocket subscription state.
gamificationStore: XP, streak, badges, scores.
preferencesStore: user preferences for UI behavior.

OFFLINE SUPPORT

Log queue: on submission failure or no connectivity, log pushed to
local MMKV-backed queue.
Queue items: { client_uuid, goal_instance_id, data, attempts, last_attempt }.
Retry: on network restore (NetInfo listener), queue is processed FIFO.
Conflict resolution: server deduplication by client_uuid.
Stale indicators: goal instances and feed cards show "data from [time ago]"
when WebSocket disconnected.


SECTION 24. THIRD-PARTY INTEGRATIONS


INTEGRATION 24.1 — FIREBASE CLOUD MESSAGING (FCM)
Purpose: Push notifications for Android and cross-platform APNs passthrough.
Implementation: Firebase Admin SDK server-side. Device tokens registered on
login, updated on app launch. Per-user token stored in auth_tokens table.

INTEGRATION 24.2 — APPLE PUSH NOTIFICATION SERVICE (APNs)
Purpose: iOS push notifications including CallKit call notifications.
Implementation: Via FCM passthrough for standard notifications; direct APNs
via HTTP/2 for CallKit to display native call UI.

INTEGRATION 24.3 — TWILIO (or AGORA) — WEBRTC INFRASTRUCTURE
Purpose: STUN/TURN server provision for voice/video calls and screen sharing.
Implementation: Twilio Video SDK or Agora SDK integrated into Communication
Service. Client-side React Native SDK for call UI. Server generates access
tokens per session.

INTEGRATION 24.4 — AMAZON S3 + CLOUDFRONT
Purpose: Media storage for proof files; CDN delivery.
Implementation: Pre-signed URL generation for direct client uploads. Files
stored with circle-scoped access paths. CloudFront distribution for CDN
delivery with signed URLs (time-limited). Server-side validation after
upload (format, size, duration for video via FFprobe Lambda).

INTEGRATION 24.5 — STRIPE (or RAZORPAY for India)
Purpose: Pro subscription billing. Future: wager escrow.
Implementation: Stripe Billing for subscription management. Webhook handling
for subscription events (created, renewed, cancelled, failed payment).
Razorpay as alternative for Indian market compliance (UPI support).
MVP: Stripe only.

INTEGRATION 24.6 — SENDGRID
Purpose: Transactional email (registration verification, password reset,
weekly summary email, data export links).

INTEGRATION 24.7 — TWILIO SMS (separate from Twilio Video)
Purpose: OTP delivery for phone-based registration and login.

INTEGRATION 24.8 — DATADOG (or SENTRY + CLOUDWATCH)
Purpose: Error tracking (Sentry), performance monitoring (Datadog or
CloudWatch), structured logging.

INTEGRATION 24.9 — ANDROID USAGESTATSMANAGER (OS-LEVEL)
Purpose: Per-app screen time data collection.
Activation: User grants "Usage Access" permission in Android Settings.
Implementation: Native Android module queries foreground app usage
daily and submits via /screen-time/sync endpoint.

INTEGRATION 24.10 — IOS SCREEN TIME API (FAMILY CONTROLS)
Purpose: Per-app screen time data and app blocking on iOS.
Requirements: com.apple.developer.family-controls entitlement (requires
Apple approval justification). ManagedSettings framework for app
restrictions.
Note: This is the highest technical risk item. Requires Apple entitlement
review and may be rejected or revoked. Fallback: overlay-only approach.

FUTURE INTEGRATIONS (Post-MVP)

Apple Health / Google Fit: Auto-log fitness activities (steps, workout minutes).
Duolingo API: Auto-log language learning sessions and streaks.
Kindle API: Auto-log reading sessions and pages read.
Oura Ring / Whoop: Auto-log sleep, HRV, recovery data.
Google Calendar: Auto-populate schedule-based goal reminders.
Stripe Connect: Enable P2P payment for cash wagers (requires legal review).


SECTION 25. SECURITY AND PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS


AUTHENTICATION AND SESSION SECURITY

JWT access tokens: 15-minute expiry, HS256 signed with rotating secret.
Refresh tokens: 30-day expiry, single-use with rotation, stored as hashed
values in DB.
Account lockout: After 10 failed login attempts, account locked for 30
minutes. Admin can manually unlock.
MFA: Optional TOTP-based 2FA (post-MVP). SMS OTP for password reset is
not true MFA but provides account recovery security.
Session invalidation: On password change, all refresh tokens invalidated.
On logout: single device or all devices option.

DATA ENCRYPTION

At rest: RDS storage encrypted with AES-256 (AWS managed keys).
S3 objects: server-side encryption (SSE-S3 or SSE-KMS).
In transit: TLS 1.2+ enforced on all endpoints; HSTS header on web admin.
Sensitive fields: phone numbers stored with application-level encryption
(AES-256) in addition to at-rest DB encryption.
Optional E2E encryption for chat: client-side Signal Protocol or
Libsodium (post-MVP, significant complexity). MVP: transport encryption
only (TLS), server can read messages for moderation.

AUTHORIZATION

All API endpoints validate circle membership for circle-scoped resources.
Resource ownership checked on every write operation (cannot modify another
user's logs, goals, etc.).
Admin endpoints: separate admin JWT, separate auth flow, IP allowlist.
Consent enforcement: every digital wellbeing data access checks consent_records
before returning data.
Signed media URLs: all proof media requires a fresh signed URL generated
with requester's circle membership validation; URLs expire in 15 minutes.

CONSENT AND PRIVACY

All digital wellbeing features (screen time, timeout, screen share)
require explicit consent before any data is collected or any action is taken.
Consent changes logged immutably in audit_logs.
Consent revocation is immediate: revoked features stop data collection
within the next sync cycle.
Screen time data: per-app granularity available only with permission;
app categories (banking, health — user-defined) always hidden.
GDPR compliance: data export (all personal data as JSON) available
on request via API and admin panel. Account deletion: 30-day grace period
(user can cancel deletion), then full data purge.
CCPA compliance: right to know, right to delete, right to opt out of sale
(no data sold; disclosure in privacy policy).
Privacy policy and terms of service must be accepted at registration.
Children's privacy: users under 13 rejected at registration. Users 13-17
require parental consent for screen time and timeout features.

CONTENT SECURITY

Proof media: scanned for CSAM using PhotoDNA or Google Cloud Vision SafeSearch
before making accessible to other users.
Chat content: reported messages reviewed by moderation tools. No automated
content scanning of private messages in MVP (E2E encryption consideration).
Rate limiting: all write endpoints have per-user rate limits. Nudge API:
strict rate limit. Timeout API: daily cap. Auth endpoints: aggressive limits.

PENETRATION TESTING AND AUDITING

Third-party security audit required before public launch.
OWASP Mobile Top 10 review for the mobile app.
Annual penetration test post-launch.
Audit logs retained for minimum 1 year and stored in separate, read-only
storage for compliance.


SECTION 26. SCALABILITY REQUIREMENTS


HORIZONTAL SCALING

All microservices are stateless and containerized. Scaled independently
via container orchestration (ECS auto-scaling or Kubernetes HPA).
Auth Service: scale based on concurrent login requests.
Logging Service: scale based on log submission volume (peak: meal-time
and evening hours).
Gamification Engine: scale batch jobs with worker parallelism.
Notification Service: scale based on notification queue depth.

WEBSOCKET SCALING

WebSocket gateway sharded by circle_id using consistent hashing.
Multiple WebSocket gateway instances, each owning a subset of circles.
Redis Pub/Sub used for cross-instance message broadcasting: when a log
is created, the event is published to a Redis channel; all WebSocket
gateway instances subscribed to that channel can fan-out to their
connected clients.
Session affinity: clients reconnect to the same shard where possible;
fallback handled by Redis state.

DATABASE SCALING

Primary RDS PostgreSQL instance for writes.
Read replicas (minimum 2) for:
  - Feed aggregation queries.
  - Leaderboard reads.
  - Score history charts.
  - Dashboard analytics.
Connection pooling: PgBouncer between services and RDS.
Partitioning: activity_logs and screen_time_snapshots partitioned by
date (monthly partitions) for efficient historical queries and archiving.

CACHING STRATEGY

Redis cache layers:
  - User profile cache: TTL 5 minutes.
  - Circle member list: TTL 1 minute.
  - Today's feed summary per circle: TTL 30 seconds (refreshed on
    log_created event).
  - Leaderboard: TTL 1 hour (refreshed nightly by batch).
  - Streak data: cached per user, invalidated on midnight batch run.
  - Consent records: cached per user per circle, invalidated on consent
    change.

MEDIA AND CDN

All media served via CloudFront CDN, never directly from S3.
Video transcoding: Lambda function triggered on upload to create optimized
HLS streams for videos > 10MB (post-MVP optimization).
Thumbnail generation: Lambda generates JPEG thumbnail from video proof
for feed cards.

CAPACITY PLANNING (INITIAL ESTIMATES)

Target at launch: 10,000 DAU.
Peak load: 5x daily average during evening hours (7-9 PM local time).
WebSocket connections at peak: 50,000.
Log submissions at peak: 10,000 per minute.
Push notifications at peak: 30,000 per minute.
Storage growth: approximately 100 GB/month for media at 10,000 DAU
with 30% proof upload rate.
Database growth: approximately 10 GB/month for transactional data.


SECTION 27. ADMIN PANEL REQUIREMENTS


Admin panel is a web application (not mobile) accessible only on internal
network or via VPN.

ADMIN AUTHENTICATION
Separate admin user accounts (not the same as regular user accounts).
TOTP-based 2FA mandatory for all admin accounts.
Session timeout: 1 hour of inactivity.
All admin actions logged in audit_logs with timestamp and admin user ID.

USER MANAGEMENT
Search users by name, email, phone, or user ID.
View user profile: circles, goals count, log count, gamification profile,
subscription status, account status.
Actions: disable account (login blocked, data retained), re-enable account,
delete account (schedule purge), reset password (sends email).
View consent records per user.
View audit trail for a user.

CIRCLE MANAGEMENT
Search circles by name, owner, or ID.
View circle details: members, goals count, active challenges, creation date.
Actions: disband circle (with data export option), view circle's chat
(if legally required for content moderation — consent disclosure required).
Flag circle for review.

TEMPLATE MANAGEMENT
Create, edit, activate/deactivate, and version goal templates.
Preview templates as users would see them.
Bulk import/export templates as JSON.
Assign category, locale, gender tag, and description.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION
View open dispute tickets sorted by creation date.
View challenge details, all participant logs, proof media for each
participant.
Record admin findings and ruling (winner, loser, cancelled, extended).
Apply ruling: system updates challenge outcome and notifies participants.
Close dispute ticket with resolution notes.

ANALYTICS DASHBOARD
Daily and monthly active users chart (line chart by date).
D1, D7, D30 retention cohort table.
Feature usage table: % of active users who used each feature in last 30 days.
Subscription metrics: free vs pro counts, upgrade rate, churn rate.
Geographic distribution (if IP-based detection used).
Top circles by activity.
Timeout effectiveness: timeout rate, override rate, goal completion rate
on timeout days.
Content moderation report counts.

MODERATION
View reported messages or content (manual reporting by users in MVP).
Action: delete message, warn user, ban user.
View harassment complaints (nudge blocking requests escalated to admin).

GLOBAL NOTIFICATIONS
Compose and send push notification to: all users, all pro users,
users in a specific region, users inactive for N days.
Schedule future notifications.
View notification delivery stats.

CONFIGURATION
Feature flags: enable/disable features globally or for beta users.
Plan limits: update free plan limits without code deploy.
Badge and achievement management: create, edit, deactivate.


SECTION 28. EDGE CASES AND FAILURE SCENARIOS


GOAL AND LOGGING

EC-001: User changes timezone mid-streak.
  Resolution: Historical instances remain as-is (generated for old timezone
  date). Future instances generated in new timezone. Streak evaluator uses
  the timezone stored at the time of instance generation. No streak break.

EC-002: User deletes a goal that is part of an active challenge.
  Resolution: Challenge goal is decoupled at challenge creation (condition
  stored as text + snapshot, not live link). Deleting the goal does not
  affect challenge tracking; challenge uses its own copy of the condition.

EC-003: User submits log for a date 30+ days ago (backdating).
  Resolution: Server allows log creation for any past date, but flags it
  as late-edit regardless of content. Late logs count against Discipline
  Score. Streak for that past date is not retroactively adjusted if it has
  already been calculated.

EC-004: Network timeout during proof upload (client times out at 60 seconds).
  Resolution: Client retries using chunked upload resume from last confirmed
  byte. If upload fails completely, log can be submitted without proof
  (for non-required proof goals) or prompted to retry for required-proof goals.

EC-005: GoalInstance not generated for a user due to scheduler failure.
  Resolution: Scheduler runs idempotently. If a user opens the app and today's
  instances are missing, the app triggers an on-demand generation via API
  fallback endpoint. Scheduler also has a "catch-up" run that fills missing
  instances for the last 7 days on each execution.

STREAK AND SCORING

EC-006: Midnight batch job fails or runs late for some users.
  Resolution: Job is idempotent and can be re-run. Streak calculation uses
  activity_logs and daily_scores tables — not time of calculation.
  Re-running for a user produces the same result. Late calculation does not
  break streaks.

EC-007: User has no active goals (all paused or archived) for a day.
  Resolution: Daily Performance Score = null (not 0). That day is excluded
  from streak calculation (neither adds to nor breaks streak).

EC-008: Two users simultaneously trigger contradictory timeout requests
  for the same target (e.g., both timeout Instagram, one for 15 min and
  one for 30 min at the same second).
  Resolution: Database lock on intervention creation per target_id;
  first successful insert wins. Second request returns 409 CONFLICT with
  message "A timeout is already active for this app."

EC-009: Grace mode runs out (user used 2 days this month) and user tries
  to activate a gifted grace day.
  Resolution: Grace days from gifts are tracked separately in
  grace_days_gifted_received and do not count against the standard 2-day
  limit. User can use up to 2 standard + any gifted grace days per month.

CHALLENGES

EC-010: Challenge deadline arrives but one participant has not accepted yet.
  Resolution: Non-accepted participants are treated as declined. If all
  other participants accepted, challenge runs with those who accepted.
  If only proposer remains, challenge is cancelled.

EC-011: All participants in a challenge have identical completion rates
  at deadline (true tie) and tie-break rule is "extend 7 days" but all
  participants agree to cancel.
  Resolution: Any participant can propose a cancellation vote. If all accept
  within 24 hours, challenge is cancelled and stakes returned. Admin
  mediation if disagreement.

EC-012: Challenge linked to a goal that the user deletes before the
  challenge ends.
  Resolution: Challenge condition is stored as a snapshot at creation time.
  Challenge tracking uses activity_logs for any goal in the same category
  and type as the original (fuzzy match). Alternatively: challenge tracks
  are decoupled at creation with a challenge-specific goal instance series.
  Preferred approach: create challenge-specific goal instances at challenge
  acceptance that run independently of the user's main goal list.

DIGITAL WELLBEING

EC-013: iOS revokes Family Controls entitlement (App Store policy change).
  Resolution: All iOS timeout features fall back to overlay-only mode.
  Users notified via in-app banner: "App timeout is currently limited to
  reminder mode on your device." Android app locking unaffected.

EC-014: User's phone is on a call when a timeout is initiated.
  Resolution: Timeout deferred by the device-side native module. A 10-minute
  deferral window applies. After the call ends (detected by native module
  listening to call state), the timeout activates if it is still within its
  originally scheduled window. If the window has passed, timeout is recorded
  as "deferred/expired."

EC-015: Banking app appears in shared screen time data inadvertently.
  Resolution: Platform maintains a default blocklist of common sensitive
  app categories (banking, health, explicit content app stores). These are
  hidden by default and cannot be manually un-hidden. User can add apps
  to hidden list on top of defaults.

COMMUNICATION

EC-016: Both parties' internet connection drops during a screen share.
  Resolution: Session ends automatically after 30-second timeout with no
  data received. Session metadata recorded with ended_at and status
  "disconnected." Neither party's data is stored. User receives "Connection
  lost" toast; can initiate a new session.

EC-017: Circle is disbanded while a challenge is active.
  Resolution: Circle disbanding requires owner confirmation of active
  challenges. Owner presented with warning: "You have N active challenges.
  Disbanding will cancel them and record no winner." If confirmed: all active
  challenges cancelled, stakes returned, participants notified.

EC-018: Sharer is showing their GrowCircle screen during screen share.
  Resolution: Acceptable — no additional blurring needed for the app itself.
  However, if a screen share notification sensor detects a payment or
  biometric authentication dialog, the share is paused.

ACCOUNT AND DATA

EC-019: User attempts to export data when a previous export is pending.
  Resolution: Only one pending export per user at a time. Show status of
  pending export with estimated completion time. Cancel and restart option.

EC-020: User deletes account while they are the circle owner of an
  active circle with other members.
  Resolution: Account deletion flow requires user to either: transfer
  ownership to another member, or disband the circle. Cannot proceed
  with deletion until resolved. If user is the only member, circle is
  automatically disbanded on account deletion.

EC-021: Media file fails the safety scan (CSAM detection positive).
  Resolution: File is immediately deleted from S3. Log is flagged. User
  account is temporarily suspended pending admin review. Law enforcement
  report filed per NCMEC requirements. This is a critical safety path —
  no false positive tolerance. Admin alerted immediately via PagerDuty.


SECTION 29. ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA


AC-001 USER REGISTRATION
  GIVEN a new user provides valid name, email, and password
  WHEN they submit the registration form
  THEN their account is created, a verification email is sent, and they
  are directed to the onboarding flow.

AC-002 CIRCLE CREATION
  GIVEN an authenticated user
  WHEN they create a circle with a name and permissions
  THEN a circle record is created, a unique invite code is generated, and
  the user becomes the circle owner.

AC-003 GOAL LOGGING WITH PROOF
  GIVEN a user has a goal requiring proof
  WHEN they try to submit a log without proof
  THEN the submission is blocked with message "Proof required for this goal."
  WHEN they attach a valid photo and submit
  THEN the log is created, proof uploaded, partners notified within 2 seconds.

AC-004 PARTNER FEED UPDATE
  GIVEN user A and user B are in the same circle
  WHEN user A submits an activity log
  THEN user B's feed updates with A's completion within 2 seconds (via
  WebSocket), and B receives a push notification within 5 seconds.

AC-005 STREAK CALCULATION
  GIVEN a user has completed >= 80% of their active goals for 6
  consecutive days
  WHEN they complete >= 80% on day 7
  THEN their streak increments to 7 and the streak milestone notification
  is delivered.
  GIVEN a user misses day 8 with no grace mode active
  WHEN the midnight batch runs
  THEN their streak resets to 0.

AC-006 TIMEOUT INTERVENTION
  GIVEN user B has granted timeout permission to user A
  WHEN user A sets a 30-minute timeout on Instagram for user B
  THEN user B receives a push notification within 5 seconds, sees a 5-second
  countdown, and the Instagram app is locked on their device after the
  countdown.
  WHEN 5 minutes have elapsed
  THEN user B can override the timeout.
  WHEN 30 minutes have elapsed
  THEN the lock lifts automatically.

AC-007 CHALLENGE RESOLUTION
  GIVEN a 7-day challenge with condition "most push-up sessions logged"
  starts on day 1 with two participants
  WHEN the deadline arrives
  THEN the system evaluates all logs for both participants, identifies
  the participant with more completed push-up logs, declares them winner,
  awards XP, and notifies both participants within 5 minutes of deadline.

AC-008 XP AND LEVEL
  GIVEN a user completes a binary goal on a day with no streak
  THEN they receive exactly 10 XP.
  GIVEN the same user uploads proof for that goal
  THEN they receive 5 additional XP (total 15 XP for that goal).
  GIVEN the user is on a 7+ day streak
  THEN base XP is multiplied by 1.5 (binary: 15 XP + proof bonus 5 XP
  = 20 XP total).

AC-009 GRACE MODE
  GIVEN a user activates grace mode for 1 day
  THEN their streak does not increment or decrement for that day.
  GIVEN they have used grace mode twice this calendar month
  WHEN they try to activate grace mode a third time (without a gifted day)
  THEN the system returns an error "No grace days remaining this month."

AC-010 OFFLINE LOGGING
  GIVEN a user submits a log while offline
  THEN the log is stored locally with a pending state indicator.
  WHEN the device regains connectivity
  THEN the log is submitted to the server and the pending indicator clears.
  WHEN the server has already received a log with the same client_uuid
  THEN the duplicate submission is rejected with 200 (idempotent success)
  and no duplicate record is created.


SECTION 30. MVP SCOPE


MVP DEFINITION: Features required for the first public launch that validate
the core value proposition (partner accountability for goal tracking) without
the full digital wellbeing and communication feature set.

IN MVP SCOPE

Authentication: registration (email), login, password reset.
Profile: basic profile with avatar.
Circle management: create circle (1 circle on free plan), invite via code/link,
join circle, member list, basic circle settings (owner role only).
Goal system: create custom goals (all types), schedule configuration, up to 10
goals (free plan limit), active/pause/archive.
Template library: at least 5 template packs at launch.
Goal instances: daily checklist generation.
Activity logging: binary, numeric, time-based logging; optional proof upload
(photo and screenshot only, no video in MVP).
Partner feed: real-time feed via WebSocket, emoji reactions, proof thumbnails.
Nudges: send, receive, block per sender.
Gamification (core): XP, streak, daily performance score, consistency score,
badges (minimum 15 badges defined), leaderboard (daily performance + weekly XP).
Challenges: create, accept, decline, auto-resolve, basic dispute (manual admin).
Challenge stakes: points only in MVP (no IOU or cash stake complexity).
In-app chat: text messages, group and DM threads.
Notifications: all defined notification types except CallKit call UI.
Profile screen: scores display, badges, streak calendar.
Onboarding flow: complete flow including permissions.
Admin panel: user management, circle management, template management, basic
analytics.
Pro subscription: Stripe billing integration, plan enforcement.
Data export and delete account.
Grace mode: activate and auto-deactivate.
Video proof: deferred to post-MVP (encoding complexity).
Growth score, Discipline score, Accountability score: calculated but displayed
as "coming soon" in the scores UI (backend ready, UI deferred for MVP to
reduce frontend complexity).

OUT OF MVP SCOPE (Post-MVP)

Screen time monitoring (full feature with OS-level APIs).
App timeout / locking (native OS integration).
Voice and video calls.
Screen sharing.
Video proof upload.
IOU and cash wager stakes in challenges.
Observer / Coach role.
Global anonymized leaderboard.
Grace mode gifting.
Streak freeze item earning mechanic (can be gifted via challenges).
Growth Score UI and Discipline Score UI (backend computes, UI deferred).
Wearable integrations.
Multiple circles (Pro plan: post-MVP, MVP allows 1 circle per user).
Advanced analytics charts.
Circle Score display.
Animated avatar.

MVP TIMELINE ESTIMATE (8 engineers, approximate)

Phase 1 (Weeks 1-4): Backend foundation — auth, user, circle, goal services.
  DB schema, API scaffolding, CI/CD setup.

Phase 2 (Weeks 5-8): Core tracking — logging service, gamification engine
  (XP, streak, DPS, CS), batch jobs, WebSocket gateway, feed API.

Phase 3 (Weeks 9-12): Mobile app — core screens (checklist, feed, profile,
  circle), logging flow, nudges, real-time updates, offline queue.

Phase 4 (Weeks 13-16): Challenges, chat, notifications, admin panel,
  template library, Stripe integration, onboarding flow.

Phase 5 (Weeks 17-20): QA, performance optimization, security audit,
  beta testing with closed user group, bug fixes.

Phase 6 (Weeks 21-22): App Store and Play Store submission, launch prep.

Total estimated MVP timeline: 22 weeks from kickoff.


SECTION 31. FUTURE SCOPE


PHASE 2 (3-6 months post-launch)
- Screen time monitoring and focus alerts.
- App timeout / locking (Android first, iOS pending Apple entitlement).
- Voice and video calling.
- Screen sharing.
- Video proof upload (max 30 seconds).
- IOU and forfeit stakes in challenges.
- Multiple circles for Pro users (up to 5).
- Growth Score and Discipline Score full UI.
- Accountability Score full UI.
- Grace mode gifting.
- Streak freeze items.
- Circle Score display.

PHASE 3 (6-12 months post-launch)
- Observer / Coach role.
- Apple Health / Google Fit integration (auto-log steps, workouts).
- Duolingo API integration (auto-log language study sessions).
- Global leaderboard (opt-in).
- Advanced analytics dashboard for users.
- Circle Journal (shared motivational board).
- Focus Together virtual co-working rooms (Pomodoro sync).
- Wearable integrations (Oura, Whoop).

PHASE 4 (12-24 months)
- Cash wager integration (Stripe Connect, legal compliance per jurisdiction).
- Personality-based matchmaking for finding accountability partners.
- AI Accountability Coach (pattern analysis, challenge recommendations).
- Dynamic Challenge Generator (AI-suggested balanced challenges).
- Habit Stacking AI (optimal goal ordering recommendations).
- Smart Goal Wizard (conversational AI for goal definition).
- Voice diary (voice note after completing a goal).
- Enterprise/Team plans with manager dashboard.
- Voice assistant integration ("Hey GrowCircle, log 100 push-ups").
- Growth Yearbook PDF generation on circle disbanding.
- Public Duo/Circle Spotlight (opt-in anonymized global feed).
- Betting pool for challenge spectators.


SECTION 32. TECHNICAL RISKS


TR-001 iOS SCREEN TIME ENTITLEMENT (CRITICAL)
Risk: Apple requires justification for com.apple.developer.family-controls
entitlement. May be rejected or revoked post-approval. Used for both screen
time reading and app locking.
Mitigation: Design system with a full-featured fallback (overlay-based timeout,
manual screen time reporting). Submit detailed justification to Apple early
(before alpha). Do not market iOS app locking as a guaranteed feature. Have
legal review Apple's Family Controls usage policies before iOS dev begins.

TR-002 ANDROID ACCESSIBILITY SERVICE ABUSE FLAG
Risk: Google Play has increasingly flagged apps using Accessibility Services
for non-accessibility purposes. May result in app removal from Play Store.
Mitigation: Research Device Policy (non-enterprise limitations), evaluate
Digital Wellbeing API (limited, extension not available to third parties).
Design as opt-in and transparent. Document the legitimate usage in Play Store
listing. Have a lawyer review Google Play policies. If rejected: full fallback
to overlay mode for timeout on Android too.

TR-003 REAL-TIME SYNC SCALE
Risk: WebSocket connections across many circles are complex to scale. A single
popular circle sending frequent updates could bottleneck a WebSocket server.
Mitigation: Circle-ID-based sharding from day 1. Rate limit feed broadcast
events (debounce: max 1 feed update per circle per 2 seconds). Implement
connection limits per circle (10 members max by design limits this naturally).

TR-004 MIDNIGHT BATCH JOB TIMING (TIMEZONES)
Risk: Users span many timezones. Running a single midnight batch creates a
1-hour window where some users' streaks are in an incorrect state.
Mitigation: Run per-user batch jobs at each user's local midnight (derived from
timezone field). Use BullMQ with delayed jobs scheduled per user. This is more
complex but correct. Alternatively: store all data in UTC, define "day" as
UTC day, and communicate this clearly to users. UTC approach is simpler but
may frustrate users whose day wraps at unexpected times.

TR-005 VIDEO PROOF UPLOAD PERFORMANCE
Risk: 30-second videos at 1080p can be 100MB+. Mobile upload on slow
connections may fail or take too long.
Mitigation: Client-side video compression before upload (FFmpeg.wasm or
native compress APIs). Target file size: 50MB maximum. Chunked upload with
resume capability. Display upload progress; allow background upload.
Server-side transcoding to a web-optimized format after upload.

TR-006 CROSS-PLATFORM NATIVE MODULE MAINTENANCE
Risk: Four native modules (screen time read, app locking, screen share,
background sync) require ongoing maintenance as Android and iOS APIs evolve.
Each OS major version can break native integrations.
Mitigation: Encapsulate all native functionality in dedicated native module
packages with clear interfaces. Write comprehensive native-layer unit tests.
Track OS release betas and test against them. Plan 1-week sprint per major OS
release for compatibility fixes.

TR-007 CHALLENGE EVALUATION CORRECTNESS
Risk: Edge cases in challenge condition evaluation may produce unfair or
incorrect outcomes, leading to disputes.
Mitigation: Comprehensive unit and integration tests for the challenge engine
covering all condition types and edge cases. Record all evaluation steps
and inputs in a challenge_evaluation_log for auditability. All evaluations
run server-side and are immutable once committed.

TR-008 PAYMENT AND WAGER LEGAL RISK (FUTURE)
Risk: Real-money wagers between users may require money transmission licenses
in various jurisdictions. Non-compliance could result in platform shutdown.
Mitigation: MVP uses IOU (no actual money). Cash wagers: retain a gaming/
fintech legal firm before implementation. Start with points-only. If cash
wagers are pursued, consider a sweepstakes model or restrict to non-monetary
"prizes" to avoid regulatory complexity.


SECTION 33. BUSINESS RISKS


BR-001 PRIVACY PERCEPTION AND TRUST
Risk: Screen time sharing, app locking, and screen sharing could be perceived
as surveillance tools by the public or press, even with consent model.
Mitigation: Clear, prominent consent UX with plain language. "Your partner
cannot see screen content, only app usage totals." Strong privacy policy.
Press/marketing materials emphasize consensual and mutual nature. Crisis
communication plan for any negative press.

BR-002 RELATIONSHIP HARM
Risk: If the platform is misused in controlling or abusive relationships,
users could be harmed. A controlling partner could misuse timeout, screen
time monitoring, or nudge features.
Mitigation: Clear consent revocation (single tap, immediate effect). In-app
education on healthy use. Anti-harassment design (nudge limits, nudge
blocking, override cooldown for timeouts). Optional: detection of patterns
suggesting one-directional intervention (one user always initiates timeouts;
other user frequently overrides) — flag for wellbeing prompt.

BR-003 PLATFORM DEPENDENCY ON IOS ENTITLEMENT
Risk: If Apple revokes the Family Controls entitlement, the key differentiating
digital wellbeing feature disappears on iOS.
Mitigation: Design without relying on iOS app locking for core value prop.
Core value is goal tracking + partner visibility. Digital wellbeing is an
enhancement. Market accordingly.

BR-004 USER RETENTION AFTER NOVELTY PERIOD
Risk: Partner monitoring is compelling initially but may feel stressful or
annoying over time if not well-executed, leading to churn.
Mitigation: Grace mode as a pressure valve. Notification granularity controls.
Deep gamification to maintain engagement after novelty fades. Regular feature
releases. Annual "Growth Yearbook" ritual to celebrate milestones.

BR-005 CIRCLE SIZE LIMITING MARKET REACH
Risk: A product designed for 2-10 users cannot rely on viral network effects
as easily as large social platforms.
Mitigation: Viral acquisition through Duo Spotlight (future), Growth Yearbook
sharing, challenge sharing on social media ("I just won a 30-day fitness
challenge!"). Matchmaking feature (future) to connect solo users seeking
accountability partners.

BR-006 COMPETITION FROM BIG TECH
Risk: Apple (Screen Time improvements + Fitness sharing), Google (Fit groups),
or Meta (accountability features in Instagram) could add similar features.
Mitigation: First-mover advantage in the specific niche (structured, multi-
dimensional, multi-goal accountability for adults). Focus on depth of feature
set and community — hard to replicate quickly in a platform monolith.


SECTION 34. AMBIGUITIES AND CLARIFICATIONS NEEDED


AC-Q01: GENDER-TAGGED TEMPLATES
What specific goal differences exist between male/female tagged templates?
Current assumption: purely fitness-oriented (e.g., different default targets
for upper body vs lower body exercises). Confirm this is not intended to
restrict access — any user should be able to use any template regardless of
tag. Recommended: Remove gender tags entirely; replace with fitness focus
area tags (upper body, lower body, cardio, flexibility, full body).

AC-Q02: MAXIMUM CIRCLE SIZE ENFORCEMENT
The product brief says "2 or more" with a recommendation of 10 for MVP.
Confirm: Hard cap at 10 for MVP. Is this configurable by the circle owner,
or fixed by the platform? If Pro plan allows larger circles, what is the Pro
maximum? Recommendation: Free = 1 circle, cap 5 members; Pro = 5 circles,
cap 10 members.

AC-Q03: TIMEOUT OVERRIDE COOLDOWN CONFIGURABILITY
Currently defined as 5-minute cooldown before override is available. Is this
fixed or configurable by the circle owner (e.g., the owner wants 15-minute
cooldown for their study circle)? Recommendation: Platform default 5 minutes;
circle owner can set between 2 and 30 minutes.

AC-Q04: SCREEN SHARE AUTO-ACCEPT
Should users be able to whitelist specific circle members for auto-accept
during specific time windows (e.g., "auto-accept screen shares from Study
Partner during 9 AM - 12 PM weekdays")? This was mentioned in the brief.
Confirmed needed. Design: user preference per circle_member + time_window config.

AC-Q05: WAGER P2P PAYMENTS FROM DAY ONE
Does the MVP need in-app P2P payments, or is IOU model sufficient for launch?
Confirmed per PRD: IOU only for MVP. P2P requires legal and infrastructure
work. Post-MVP.

AC-Q06: CROSS-CIRCLE SCORE AGGREGATION
If a user is in two circles, are their scores completely separate, or is there
an aggregate "platform profile" view? Current assumption: fully isolated per
circle. Confirm: No cross-circle aggregation. Each circle is a separate context.

AC-Q07: CHAT RETENTION AND EPHEMERALITY
Should messages be ephemeral (disappear after N days) or retained indefinitely?
Current assumption: retained indefinitely, user can delete own messages.
E2E encryption for chat: post-MVP. For MVP, server can read messages for
moderation. Confirm this is acceptable from a user trust perspective. If not,
reconsider for MVP.

AC-Q08: AI PROOF VERIFICATION
Is proof automatically verified by AI in MVP, or is verification purely manual
by partners? Current assumption: No AI verification in MVP. Partners manually
review proof. AI verification is a future feature. Flagging only available
if a partner manually disputes a log.

AC-Q009: GRACE MODE GIFTING IN MVP
The brief mentions grace mode gifting in the strategic improvements section.
Is this in MVP or post-MVP? Recommendation: Post-MVP. Adds complexity to
grace day accounting. Include the data model fields in MVP schema for easy
addition later.

AC-Q010: MINIMUM GOALS FOR STREAK
Brief states minimum 2 active goals for streak to count. Confirm: if a user
has only 1 active goal, streak does not accumulate? This seems harsh for new
users. Alternative: minimum 1 active goal for streak, 2+ goals required for
full streak multiplier benefits. Recommend clarifying with product owner.

AC-Q011: PRIVATE GOALS VISIBILITY
If a user marks a goal as "sensitive" (hidden), it does not appear in the
partner feed at all. But does the user still see it in their own daily
checklist and does it count in their own DPS? Assumption: Yes, hidden goals
count in own DPS but are invisible to partners entirely (not even a "X has
1 hidden goal today" indicator). Confirm.

AC-Q012: GRACE MODE AND CONSISTENCY SCORE DENOMINATOR
The brief states grace days are excluded from the 30-day denominator for
Consistency Score. Confirm: if a user used 4 grace days in a month, their
CS is computed over 26 days instead of 30? This could be gamed. Consider:
grace days excluded from both numerator and denominator (current assumption);
versus: grace days are excluded from denominator only if the user has fewer
than 2 grace days used. Confirm design intent.

================================================================================
APPENDIX A: FINAL PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT SUMMARY
================================================================================

Product: GrowCircle
Type: Cross-platform mobile application (iOS + Android) + Web Admin Panel
Primary use case: Social accountability for personal growth in trusted pairs
and small groups
Core user interaction: Daily goal logging with partner visibility, proof,
nudges, challenges, and digital wellbeing management
Business model: Freemium (Free plan 1 circle 10 goals; Pro plan 5 circles
unlimited goals; future transaction fees and enterprise plans)
Tech stack: React Native (mobile), PostgreSQL + Redis (data), Node.js
microservices (backend), WebSocket + FCM/APNs (real-time), AWS (infrastructure)
MVP scope: Goal tracking, partner feed, gamification, challenges (points only),
chat, nudges, 8-week testing cycle, soft launch in week 22 from kickoff


APPENDIX B: SYSTEM DESIGN DOCUMENT SUMMARY


ARCHITECTURE PATTERN: Event-driven microservices.

SERVICES (8 core): Auth, Circle, Goal, Logging, Gamification Engine,
Notification, Intervention, Communication.

COMMUNICATION: Async via Kafka/SQS event bus for score updates and notifications.
Sync via gRPC for low-latency inter-service calls. WebSocket gateway for
real-time client communication, sharded by circle_id.

DATABASE: PostgreSQL primary + read replicas, partitioned on date for high-volume
tables. Redis for cache, queues, and real-time state (streak cache, leaderboard,
feed summaries). Object storage (S3 + CloudFront) for proof media.

CRITICAL BATCH JOBS:
- Goal instance generator (midnight per timezone).
- Score batch (nightly: CS, GS, DS, AS calculation).
- Streak updater (midnight per user timezone; idempotent).
- Leaderboard updater (nightly after score batch).
- Screen time data purge (weekly, removes raw data > 30 days).
- Grace period reset (1st of each month).

SCALING: Stateless horizontal scaling, WebSocket sharding, read replicas,
CDN for media, Redis for caching hot data.

NATIVE MODULES (HIGH RISK): Screen time reading, app locking, screen sharing,
background sync — each requires platform-specific native code and has OS API
deprecation risk.


APPENDIX C: UI/UX SPECIFICATION SUMMARY


DESIGN PRINCIPLES:
1. Zero friction for the most frequent action (logging a goal).
2. Real-time partner presence creates accountability without prompting.
3. Consent always comes before capability — never surprise the user.
4. Positive reinforcement design — celebrate completion, not shame failure.
5. Every screen has a purpose and a next action.

NAVIGATION: 5-tab bottom nav (Home, Goals, Focus, Challenges, Profile).
Circle switcher persistent in top nav.

DESIGN SYSTEM:
Primary colors: Deep indigo (brand), Vibrant coral (CTA), Soft green (success),
Amber (warnings), Red (errors), Neutral greys for backgrounds.
Typography: System fonts (SF Pro on iOS, Roboto on Android) for performance.
Custom display font for headlines and score numbers.
Iconography: Custom icon set for goal categories, badges, and score types.
Component library: Documented in Storybook (future) or Figma component library.

KEY UX PATTERNS:
- Optimistic UI for all goal logging actions.
- Skeleton loaders for initial data loads.
- WebSocket reconnection handled silently with stale-data indicator.
- Offline queue with visible pending state.
- Haptic feedback on key actions.
- WCAG 2.1 AA accessibility compliance throughout.

SCREENS (count): 28 distinct screens identified in Section 12 (expanded from
the core 7 detailed above; including modals, settings sub-screens, and flows).

DARK MODE: Full support, system-aware with manual override.


APPENDIX D: DEVELOPMENT ROADMAP


PHASE 0 — FOUNDATION (Weeks 1-2)
Dev environment setup, CI/CD pipeline, GitHub repo structure.
Design system kickoff (Figma component library setup).
Database schema finalized and reviewed.
ADR (Architecture Decision Records) for key technical choices.
API contract definition (OpenAPI spec).

PHASE 1 — CORE BACKEND (Weeks 3-8)
Auth Service: registration, login, token management.
Circle Service: CRUD, membership, invite, consent.
Goal Service: CRUD, template engine, instance generator.
Logging Service: log CRUD, media upload/confirm, deduplication.
WebSocket Gateway: connection management, circle channels.
Basic Gamification Engine: XP calculation, streak tracking, DPS.
Admin Panel: user and circle management.

PHASE 2 — MOBILE MVP (Weeks 9-16)
Authentication screens: registration, login, onboarding flow.
Circle management screens: create, join, settings.
Goal management screens: create, list, detail, template browser.
Daily checklist screen with logging modal.
Partner feed screen with real-time WebSocket updates.
Nudge send/receive flow.
Basic gamification UI: streak counter, XP display, badge grid.
Challenge screens: create, list, detail, resolution.
Chat: group and DM threads.
Push notification integration (FCM + APNs).
Profile screen: scores, badges, streak calendar.
Settings and preferences screens.
Offline queue implementation.

PHASE 3 — POLISH AND COMPLETION (Weeks 17-20)
Admin panel: templates, analytics, disputes.
Stripe subscription integration.
Score batch jobs: CS, GS, DS, AS.
Leaderboard computation.
Data export and account deletion flows.
Security audit and penetration test.
Performance optimization (cold start, list virtualization, caching).
Accessibility review (WCAG 2.1 AA).
Content safety scanning for media uploads.

PHASE 4 — BETA AND LAUNCH (Weeks 21-22)
Closed beta with 50-100 real users.
Bug triage and fixes.
App Store (iOS) and Play Store (Android) submission.
Privacy policy and terms of service finalized.
Support documentation and in-app help.
Launch.

POST-LAUNCH (Phase 2 features — see Section 31)
Screen time monitoring (8-12 weeks post-launch).
App locking (12-16 weeks, iOS entitlement track started at week 4).
Voice/video calling (10-14 weeks post-launch).
Screen sharing (14-18 weeks post-launch).


APPENDIX E: EPIC, FEATURE, USER STORY, AND TASK BREAKDOWN


EPIC E-001: USER IDENTITY AND CIRCLES

Feature F-001.1: User Registration and Authentication
  User Story US-001.1.1: Register with email and password.
    Task T-001: Implement POST /auth/register endpoint.
    Task T-002: Email verification flow (SendGrid integration).
    Task T-003: Build registration screen (React Native).
    Task T-004: Form validation (client + server-side).
    Task T-005: Password hashing (bcrypt) implementation.

  User Story US-001.1.2: Login and session management.
    Task T-006: Implement POST /auth/login endpoint.
    Task T-007: JWT access + refresh token generation.
    Task T-008: Secure token storage on device (Keychain/Keystore).
    Task T-009: Auto-refresh token on expiry.
    Task T-010: Build login screen.

  User Story US-001.1.3: Forgot and reset password.
    Task T-011: Implement forgot-password endpoint (email delivery).
    Task T-012: Implement reset-password endpoint (token validation).
    Task T-013: Build forgot-password screen.

Feature F-001.2: Growth Circle Management
  User Story US-001.2.1: Create a circle.
    Task T-014: Implement POST /circles endpoint.
    Task T-015: Invite code and link generation.
    Task T-016: Build circle creation wizard (React Native, 5 steps).
    Task T-017: Circle settings persistence.

  User Story US-001.2.2: Join a circle.
    Task T-018: Implement POST /circles/join endpoint.
    Task T-019: Deep link handling for invite links.
    Task T-020: Build join flow with consent screens.
    Task T-021: Consent records storage.

  User Story US-001.2.3: Manage circle members.
    Task T-022: Implement member removal endpoint.
    Task T-023: Ownership transfer endpoint.
    Task T-024: Build member management screen (owner view).

EPIC E-002: GOAL SYSTEM

Feature F-002.1: Custom Goal Creation
  User Story US-002.1.1: Create a goal with all configuration options.
    Task T-025: Implement POST /goals endpoint.
    Task T-026: Goal type validation logic (binary/numeric/time/custom).
    Task T-027: Build goal creation modal (dynamic form by type).
    Task T-028: Category picker component with emoji support.
    Task T-029: Sub-task builder component.
    Task T-030: Schedule configuration component.

  User Story US-002.1.2: Edit, pause, archive goals.
    Task T-031: Implement PUT/DELETE/PATCH /goals/:id endpoints.
    Task T-032: Build goal list screen with filter and sort.
    Task T-033: Build goal detail screen with history chart.

Feature F-002.2: Template Library
  User Story US-002.2.1: Browse and import template packs.
    Task T-034: Implement GET /templates endpoint.
    Task T-035: Implement POST /goals/import-template endpoint.
    Task T-036: Build template gallery screen.
    Task T-037: Build template detail/preview screen.
    Task T-038: Create and seed 5 initial template packs in DB.

Feature F-002.3: Daily Instance Generation
  User Story US-002.3.1: Daily checklist auto-populates every day.
    Task T-039: Implement goal instance generator cron job.
    Task T-040: Timezone-aware scheduling logic.
    Task T-041: Catch-up generation for missed days.
    Task T-042: Implement GET /goal-instances endpoint.

EPIC E-003: PROGRESS TRACKING AND PARTNER FEED

Feature F-003.1: Activity Logging
  User Story US-003.1.1: Log daily goals with various input types.
    Task T-043: Implement POST /logs endpoint.
    Task T-044: Implement completion_fraction calculation logic.
    Task T-045: Build daily checklist screen.
    Task T-046: Build goal log modal (binary / numeric / timer variants).
    Task T-047: Timer component (start/stop/background tracking).

  User Story US-003.1.2: Upload proof with log.
    Task T-048: Implement POST /media/upload-url endpoint (pre-signed S3).
    Task T-049: Implement POST /media/confirm endpoint.
    Task T-050: Content safety scan Lambda integration.
    Task T-051: Build media picker component (camera, gallery, screenshot).
    Task T-052: Upload progress indicator component.
    Task T-053: Background upload management (survives screen navigation).

  User Story US-003.1.3: Offline log submission.
    Task T-054: Local queue implementation using MMKV.
    Task T-055: NetInfo listener for connectivity change detection.
    Task T-056: Retry logic with exponential backoff.
    Task T-057: Server-side deduplication by client_uuid.
    Task T-058: Offline state indicator UI component.

Feature F-003.2: Partner Feed
  User Story US-003.2.1: View partners' real-time progress.
    Task T-059: Implement GET /circles/:id/feed endpoint.
    Task T-060: WebSocket gateway setup (Socket.io server).
    Task T-061: Circle channel management in WebSocket gateway.
    Task T-062: log_created event broadcast to circle members.
    Task T-063: Build partner feed screen (React Native FlatList).
    Task T-064: Partner card component.
    Task T-065: Proof thumbnail strip component.
    Task T-066: Full-screen media viewer component.
    Task T-067: WebSocket client integration in React Native.
    Task T-068: Stale data indicator when WebSocket disconnected.

  User Story US-003.2.2: React with emoji and send nudges.
    Task T-069: Implement POST /logs/:id/reactions endpoint.
    Task T-070: Emoji reaction picker component.
    Task T-071: Nudge implementation (POST /nudges).
    Task T-072: Nudge rate limiting (3 per sender-recipient per day).
    Task T-073: Nudge blocking preference implementation.

EPIC E-004: GAMIFICATION AND SCORING

Feature F-004.1: Core Gamification (XP, Streak, DPS)
  User Story US-004.1.1: Earn XP and level up.
    Task T-074: XP calculation logic in gamification engine.
    Task T-075: Streak multiplier logic.
    Task T-076: Streak update cron job.
    Task T-077: Daily Performance Score real-time calculation.
    Task T-078: Build XP display and level bar in profile screen.

  User Story US-004.1.2: Earn badges.
    Task T-079: Badge criteria evaluation engine.
    Task T-080: Badge definitions seeding (minimum 15 badges).
    Task T-081: Badge unlock event and notification.
    Task T-082: Badge grid display component.
    Task T-083: Badge unlock modal animation.

Feature F-004.2: Leaderboard
  User Story US-004.2.1: View circle leaderboard.
    Task T-084: Leaderboard computation batch job.
    Task T-085: Implement GET /circles/:id/leaderboard endpoint.
    Task T-086: Build leaderboard screen with metric toggle.
    Task T-087: Leaderboard row component with rank, avatar, value.

Feature F-004.3: Grace Mode
  User Story US-004.3.1: Activate grace mode to pause streak.
    Task T-088: Grace mode activation endpoint and logic.
    Task T-089: Grace day tracking and monthly reset job.
    Task T-090: Build grace mode UI in profile screen.
    Task T-091: Circle notification on grace mode activation.

EPIC E-005: CHALLENGES

Feature F-005.1: Challenge Lifecycle
  User Story US-005.1.1: Create and manage challenges.
    Task T-092: Implement POST /challenges endpoint.
    Task T-093: Challenge acceptance/decline endpoint.
    Task T-094: Challenge evaluation engine (at deadline).
    Task T-095: Challenge withdrawal logic (auto-loss).
    Task T-096: Build challenge creation flow (multi-step form).
    Task T-097: Build challenge list screen.
    Task T-098: Build challenge detail screen with progress tracking.
    Task T-099: Challenge resolution notification flow.

  User Story US-005.1.2: Dispute challenge outcome.
    Task T-100: Implement POST /challenges/:id/dispute endpoint.
    Task T-101: Admin dispute queue in admin panel.
    Task T-102: Admin dispute resolution endpoint.

EPIC E-006: COMMUNICATION

Feature F-006.1: In-App Chat
  User Story US-006.1.1: Send and receive messages in circle and DM.
    Task T-103: Chat thread creation and management endpoints.
    Task T-104: Message send endpoint.
    Task T-105: WebSocket message delivery (reuse existing gateway).
    Task T-106: Build chat screen (thread list + message thread view).
    Task T-107: Chat bubble component.
    Task T-108: Message input with emoji picker.
    Task T-109: Unread message badge on navigation tab.
    Task T-110: Push notification for new message.

EPIC E-007: NOTIFICATIONS AND ADMIN

Feature F-007.1: Push Notification System
  User Story US-007.1.1: Deliver all notification types.
    Task T-111: FCM Admin SDK integration.
    Task T-112: APNs integration for iOS.
    Task T-113: Notification service with event listeners.
    Task T-114: Notification preference enforcement.
    Task T-115: In-app notification center (list + mark read).
    Task T-116: Device token management (register on login).

Feature F-007.2: Admin Panel
  User Story US-007.2.1: Manage users, circles, templates, disputes.
    Task T-117: Admin panel React web app setup.
    Task T-118: Admin auth (separate credentials, TOTP).
    Task T-119: User management screens.
    Task T-120: Circle management screens.
    Task T-121: Template CRUD screens.
    Task T-122: Analytics dashboard screens.
    Task T-123: Dispute resolution interface.

EPIC E-008: INFRASTRUCTURE AND SECURITY

  Task T-124: PostgreSQL schema migration system (Flyway or Knex).
  Task T-125: Redis cluster setup.
  Task T-126: S3 bucket configuration with lifecycle policies.
  Task T-127: CloudFront distribution setup.
  Task T-128: API Gateway setup with JWT validation middleware.
  Task T-129: Rate limiting implementation (per endpoint).
  Task T-130: Stripe billing integration (subscriptions, webhooks).
  Task T-131: GDPR data export endpoint (JSON + PDF).
  Task T-132: Account deletion flow (scheduled purge job).
  Task T-133: Audit logging for sensitive operations.
  Task T-134: Sentry error tracking integration (mobile + backend).
  Task T-135: Performance monitoring setup (Datadog or CloudWatch).
  Task T-136: CI/CD pipeline (GitHub Actions → ECS).
  Task T-137: Security audit (pre-launch, third-party).


FINAL SECTION: FEATURE RECOMMENDATION — WHAT TO ADD, REMOVE, OR REPLACE


The following analysis is based on the goal of maximizing user engagement,
retention, accountability effectiveness, and product differentiation, while
reducing implementation risk and complexity.

FEATURES TO KEEP AS-IS (CORE DIFFERENTIATION)

1. Real-time Partner Feed with WebSocket
   This is the primary differentiator. No other habit tracker shows your
   specific trusted partner's daily completions in real time. Non-negotiable.

2. Proof Upload with Verification
   Removes the honor system problem. Photo proof is high-value, low-
   complexity. Keep and ship in MVP.

3. Multi-Dimensional Scoring (5 scores)
   Most competitors show one number (streak). Five scores give users a
   more nuanced and honest view of performance. Differentiated and valuable.
   Keep all five; the calculation complexity is manageable.

4. Challenge System with Stakes
   Structured challenges with defined outcomes are far more motivating than
   passive tracking. Keep in MVP. Points-only stakes are sufficient to
   launch without legal complexity.

5. Consent-Based Timeout (Digital Wellbeing)
   The most unique feature in the market. No peer-to-peer app locking tool
   exists for adults. High risk (OS entitlement) but highest differentiation.
   Keep — but build with full fallback. Ship as Phase 2.

FEATURES TO REMOVE OR DE-PRIORITIZE

REMOVE: Grace Mode Gifting from MVP.
Reason: Adds complexity to grace day accounting, DB schema edge cases, and
a relatively small emotional impact. The standard grace mode (self-activated)
is sufficient for MVP. Add in Phase 2.

REMOVE: Global Anonymized Leaderboard from MVP.
Reason: Users at launch do not have the activity history needed to make a
global leaderboard meaningful. It could be discouraging to new users who
see globally experienced users dominating. Ship after 3 months when there
is a real user base.

REMOVE: Sub-tasks and Milestones from Goal Cards in MVP.
Reason: Adds significant UI complexity to the goal creation form. Most users
do not need sub-tasks for habit tracking. A "run 5km every day" goal does
not need sub-tasks. Add in Phase 2 after seeing what users actually need.

DE-PRIORITIZE: Streak Freeze as an earned item.
Reason: Earning streak freezes through challenges is a secondary mechanic
that requires the challenge system to reference gamification inventory.
Simplify in MVP: streak freeze is not available; grace mode serves the same
psychological function.

REMOVE: Betting Pool for Spectators (from Future Scope entirely).
Reason: This introduces significant regulatory complexity (gambling laws),
potential for misuse, and social toxicity. The platform is about private
trusted circles, not spectator gambling. Remove from the product roadmap.

FEATURES TO ADD (NOT IN ORIGINAL BRIEF, HIGH IMPACT)

ADD: Quick Log Widget (iOS Widget / Android Home Screen Widget)
Impact: The most friction-reducing feature possible. Users can log a binary
goal (or enter a number) directly from their home screen without opening the
app. This directly increases daily log rates, which is the core retention
metric. Low-to-medium implementation complexity.

ADD: Partner Log Verification (Thumbs Up / Dispute on Proof)
Rather than passive viewing, partners explicitly tap "Verified" or "Dispute"
on each proof submission. This creates active accountability, not passive
watching. "Dispute" triggers a soft conversation (not an automated penalty).
Verification rate becomes a social signal. Adds one row to activity_logs
(verified_by_user_id, verified_at, disputed: bool). High impact, low
complexity.

ADD: Check-In Call Prompts (Not Full Video, Just Scheduled Audio)
Scheduled 5-minute check-in prompts ("You both have a daily standups goal.
Want to do a quick 5-minute voice check-in now?") appear when both users
are active in the app simultaneously. This is different from the full
video calling feature — it is a lightweight presence-aware prompt. Uses
the WebSocket presence data already available. Very low complexity, high
social value.

ADD: Goal Streak Shield (Visible to Partner)
When a user is on a long streak (e.g., 21+ days), their goal card shows
a visible "streak shield" indicator to their partner. This creates an
additional social motivation: the partner feels extra accountability not
to "break" their partner's streak by allowing them to skip. This is purely
cosmetic UI using existing streak data.

ADD: Daily 9 AM Circle Summary Push (Configurable)
A morning push notification that says:
"Good morning! Yesterday: You: 5/5 goals. Aarav: 4/5. Your streak: 14 days."
This brings users back to the app before they start their day and sets an
accountability tone. Very low complexity (notification service already
exists); very high daily active user impact.

REPLACE: Video Proof (max 30 seconds) → Replace with Time-Lapse Proof
Instead of a raw 30-second video (storage intensive, slow upload, encoding
required), allow users to record a 10-frame time-lapse (photos taken every
3 seconds, assembled into a 3-second GIF). This is far smaller in file size
(1-3 MB vs 50 MB), requires no video encoding infrastructure, and still
provides compelling visual proof of activities like writing, studying, or
drawing. Regular video proof can still be added in Phase 2 with proper
encoding infrastructure.

REPLACE: Animated Avatar Evolution → Replace with Circle Progress Visual
The animated avatar (armor upgrades, glowing aura per user) is a feature
that works well in single-player games (Duolingo's Duo) but in a peer
context, it creates comparison anxiety (one person's avatar looks weak while
the other looks strong). Instead, replace with a Circle Progress Visual:
a shared visual metaphor (a growing garden, or a rising mountain) that only
improves when ALL members are performing — it is a cooperative visual reward,
not a competitive one. This aligns better with the platform's core philosophy
of growing together.

REPLACE: Pomodoro-Synced Virtual Rooms (from Strategic Improvements)
→ Replace with Goal Session Co-Start
Instead of complex Pomodoro infrastructure, a simpler "Co-Start" feature:
one user taps "Start session" on a time-based goal, the app asks "Want to
invite [Partner] to start together?" The partner gets a notification: "Aarav
started their study session. Tap to start yours." Both users' timers start.
At the end of the session, both logs are linked (co-session). This creates
shared momentum without the complexity of a virtual room. Implementation:
add a session_link_id to activity_logs; < 1 week of work.

SUMMARY TABLE

Action         | Feature                          | Reason
Keep           | Real-time partner feed            | Core differentiator
Keep           | Proof upload + photo              | Trust mechanism
Keep           | 5-score system                    | Unique depth
Keep           | Consent-based timeout             | Highest differentiation
Keep           | Challenge system (points MVP)     | Competition + stakes
Remove MVP     | Grace mode gifting                | Complexity vs. impact
Remove MVP     | Global leaderboard                | Too early, discouraging
Remove MVP     | Sub-tasks/milestones              | Overcomplicates goal UX
Remove MVP     | Streak freeze as earned item      | Grace mode suffices
Remove always  | Spectator betting pool            | Legal and social risk
Add            | Home screen widget for logging    | Highest friction reduction
Add            | Partner proof verification button | Active vs. passive feed
Add            | Co-Start session prompt           | Lightweight co-working
Add            | Streak shield visual for partner  | Social motivation signal
Add            | Morning circle summary push       | High DAU impact
Replace        | 30-sec video → time-lapse GIF     | Lower infra cost, same value
Replace        | Animated avatar → Circle garden   | Cooperative, not competitive


END OF DOCUMENT
GROWCIRCLE COMPLETE PRD v1.0

